Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following material risk factors associated with our business and the oil and natural gas industry in which we operate. If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known.An investment in Gastar is subject to risks inherent in our business. The trading price of our common shares will be affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. The value of an investment in Gastar may decrease, resulting in a loss.We have incurred significant net losses since our inception and may incur additional significant net losses in the future.With the exception of the one-time sale of our Australian properties in 2009 and recognition of a $27.7 million non-cash gain on acquisition of assets at fair value for the Chesapeake acquisition, and subsequent sale of certain properties acquired from Chesapeake, which resulted in net income of $40.0 million in 2013, we have not been profitable since we started our business. We incurred net losses of $160.9 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our capital has been employed in an increasingly expanding oil and natural gas exploration and development program, with our focus on finding significant oil and natural gas reserves and producing from them over the long-term rather than focusing on achieving immediate net income. The uncertainties described in this “Item 1A – Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K may impede our ability to ultimately find, develop and exploit natural gas and oil reserves. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and continue our exploration and development program.Oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs prices are volatile and further declines would continue to significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our results are subject to commodity price fluctuations related to seasonal and market conditions and reservoir and production risks.The success of our business depends primarily on the market prices of oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs. Oil and natural gas commodity prices are set by broad market forces, which have been and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. For example, market prices for natural gas in the U.S. have declined substantially from 2008 price levels, and the rapid development of shale plays throughout North America has contributed significantly to this trend. Additionally, market prices for NGLs declined subsequent to 2011 and we experienced a 46% decrease in our realized NGLs prices per barrel excluding the impact of hedging from 2011 to 2012 and a 12% increase in our realized NGLs prices per barrel excluding the impact of hedging from 2012 to 2013. Lower prices also may reduce the amount of oil, condensate, natural gas or NGLs that we can produce economically. Prices for oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, condensate, natural gas or NGLs, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include:•The domestic and foreign supply and demand of natural gas, condensate, oil and NGLs;26Table of Contents•Volatile trading patterns in the commodity futures markets;•Overall economic conditions and market uncertainty;•Weather conditions;•The cost of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting and marketing natural gas, condensate, oil and NGLs;•The proximity to, and capacity of, natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities;•Political conditions in the Middle East and other oil producing regions, such as Venezuela;•Domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and•The price and availability of competing alternative fuels.The long-term effect of these and other factors on the prices of natural gas, condensate, oil and NGLs are uncertain. Prolonged or substantial declines in these commodity prices may have the following effects on our business:•Adversely affecting our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations;•Reducing the amount of natural gas, condensate, oil and NGLs that we can produce economically;•Causing us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects;•Reducing our revenues, operating income or cash flows;•Reducing the amounts of our estimated proved natural gas and oil reserves;•Reducing the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties;•Reducing the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to natural gas and oil reserves; and•Limiting our access to sources of capital, such as equity and long-term debt. Our success is influenced by oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs prices in the specific areas where we operate, and these prices may be lower than prices at major markets.Regional oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs prices may move independently of broad industry price trends. Because some of our operations are located outside major markets, we are directly impacted by regional prices regardless of Henry Hub, WTI or other major market pricing. During 2013, approximately 20% of our natural gas production was priced based on the Katy Hub basis point and 72% was priced based on the Columbia Gas Appalachia Pool. Our West Virginia natural gas production is priced using the Columbia Gas Appalachia Pool. At December 31, 2013, the Henry Hub price was $4.42 per MMBtu, compared to our key basis point pricing of $4.34 per MMBtu at the Katy Hub and $4.24 per MMBtu for the Columbia Gas Appalachia Pool. Low natural gas prices in any or all of the areas where we operate would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. During 2013, approximately 37% and 61% of our oil and condensate production was produced in the Mid-Continent and the Marcellus Shale, respectively, where we realized an average price per barrel of $94.80 and $55.61, respectively, excluding the impact of hedging activities for the year. This compares to the daily average WTI posted price of $94.49 per barrel for 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our realized NGLs prices for Marcellus Shale and Mid-Continent NGLs production represented approximately 34% and 35%, respectively, of the full year 2013 daily unweighted average WTI posted price of $94.01. Our development operations will require substantial capital expenditures. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future growth capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our preferred stockholders. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial growth capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our preferred stockholders and to service our indebtedness. Our capital budget for 2014 totals $191.8 million, and we expect to fund these expenditures using existing cash balances, cash generated internally from our operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, the possible divestiture of assets and the possible issuance of debt or equity securities or some combination thereof. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:•Our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves;•The amount of oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs that we produce from existing wells;•The prices at which we sell our production;27Table of Contents•The costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas production;•Our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;•The ability and willingness of banks to lend to us; and•Our ability to access the capital markets.If the borrowing base under our credit facility or our cash flow from operations decreases as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in estimated reserves or production or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed to fund our growth capital expenditures, our ability to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future growth capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our preferred stockholders and to service our indebtedness. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our preferred stockholders and to service our indebtedness. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional preferred equity will increase the aggregate amount of cash required to make distributions to preferred stockholders.Hedging of our production may result in losses or prevent us from benefiting to the fullest extent possible from increases in prices for oil and natural gas.We have entered into New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) futures contracts as hedges on approximately 12.0 Bcf of natural gas production and 934,000 Bbls of crude production in 2014, 2.8 Bcf of natural gas production and 637,000 Bbls of crude production in 2015, 1.5 Bcf of natural gas production and 533,000 Bbls of crude production in 2016, 373,000 Bbls of crude production in 2017 and 103,000 Bbls of crude production in 2018 as of December 31, 2013. Although these hedges may partially protect us from declines in commodity prices, the use of these arrangements also may limit our ability to benefit from significant increases in the prices of oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs.Approximately 44% of our proved reserves are classified as proved developed non-producing or proved undeveloped and may ultimately prove to be less than current reserves estimates.At December 31, 2013, approximately 44% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing or proved undeveloped. It will take approximately $287.8 million of capital to recomplete or drill our non-producing and undeveloped locations. Our estimate of proved reserves at December 31, 2013 assumes that we will spend in 2014 and 2015 development capital expenditures to develop these reserves of $87.1 million and $28.7 million, respectively. Further, our drilling efforts may be delayed or unsuccessful, and actual reserves may prove to be less than current reserve estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and our results of operations.Any disruptions in production, development of proved reserves, or our ability to process and sell oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs from our properties in the Appalachian Basin would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or reduce future revenues. Our current production is geographically concentrated in the Appalachian Basin and the Mid-Continent area of Oklahoma. Approximately 65% of our oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs revenues before impact of hedges and approximately 68% of our total proved reserves for the year ended December 31, 2013 were attributable to our properties in the Appalachian Basin area. Production in the Appalachian Basin could unexpectedly be disrupted or curtailed due to reservoir, mechanical or third-party gathering system problems. The majority of our production from this area is dedicated to SEI, who agreed to utilize the midstream facilities of a third-party gathering system. Since the beginning of 2013, our Marcellus Shale production has been significantly curtailed resulting from issues with high line pressures and unscheduled downtime on the gathering system operated by Williams that services our Marcellus West properties. We estimate that the gathering system downtime for the year ended December 31, 2013 resulted in reduced production of approximately 6.8 MMcfe/d (1.1 MBoe/d), or 13% of total production for the for the year ended December 31, 2013, which reflects the incremental production for the unscheduled downtime assuming an average daily production rate equal to the average daily production immediately prior to the downtime at our actual average monthly sales prices. On July 16, 2013, we initiated an arbitration proceeding requesting damages against the gathering system operator for, among other claims, failure to timely construct certain gathering and processing facilities, maximize the net value of produced condensation, and fractionate and purchase NGLs as provided in the agreements. On December 31, 2013, the parties informed the Arbitration Panel that they have reached an agreement in principle to settle their disputes. The settlement is subject to final documentation, which has not yet been completed. At the request of both parties, on January 9, 2014, the Arbitration Panel stayed all proceedings, pending completion of the final 28Table of Contentssettlement documentation. While we continue to work with Williams regarding the final settlement agreement, there can be no assurance that such agreement will be finalized quickly or at all. Approximately 26% of our oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs revenues before impact of hedges for the year ended December 31, 2013 were attributable to our properties in the Mid-Continent area of Oklahoma. Production in the Mid-Continent could unexpectedly be disrupted or curtailed due to reservoir or mechanical problems. Our ability to market our oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs may be impaired by capacity constraints and availability of the gathering systems and pipelines that transport our oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs. The availability of a ready market for our oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs production, particularly in the Appalachian Basin area, depends on the proximity of our reserves to and the capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and trucking or terminal facilities. We do not own or operate any natural gas lines or distribution facilities and rely on third parties to construct additional interstate pipelines to increase our ability to bring our production to market. We enter into agreements with companies that own pipelines used to transport natural gas from the wellhead to contract destination. Those pipelines are limited in size and volume of natural gas flow.There are a limited number of natural gas purchasers and transporters in the Marcellus Shale in the Appalachian area of West Virginia and central and southwestern Pennsylvania. For the year ended December 31, 2013, SEI and Clearfield Appalachia accounted for substantially all of our revenues from the Marcellus Shale. If SEI and Clearfield Appalachia were to cease purchasing and Williams were to cease transporting our natural gas in the Marcellus Shale and we were unable to contract with another purchaser and/or transporter, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Alternatively, there are numerous oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs purchasers in the Mid-Continent area. Delays in the commencement of operations of new pipelines, the unavailability of the new pipelines or other facilities due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, since the beginning of 2013, our Marcellus Shale production has been significantly curtailed resulting from issues with high line pressures and unscheduled downtime on the gathering system operated by Williams that services our Marcellus West properties. We estimate that the gathering system downtime during the year ended December 31, 2013 resulted in reduced production of approximately 6.8 MMcfe/d (1.1 MBoe/d), or 13% of total production for the year ended December 31, 2013, which reflects the incremental production for the unscheduled downtime assuming an average daily production rate equal to the average daily production immediately prior to the downtime at our actual average monthly sales prices. On July 16, 2013, we initiated an arbitration proceeding requesting damages against the gathering system operator for, among other claims, failure to timely construct certain gathering and processing facilities, maximize the net value of produced condensation, and fractionate and purchase NGLs as provided in the agreements. On December 31, 2013, the parties informed the Arbitration Panel that they have reached an agreement in principle to settle their disputes. The settlement is subject to final documentation, which has not yet been completed. At the request of both parties, on January 9, 2014, the Arbitration Panel stayed all proceedings, pending completion of the final settlement documentation. While we continue to work with Williams regarding the final settlement agreement, there can be no assurance that such agreement will be finalized quickly or at all.In West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania, key issues to development include limited pipeline infrastructure and access, water access and disposal issues to support operations and limited industry services. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on our ability to effectively conduct exploration and development activities.Further, interstate transportation and distribution of natural gas is regulated by the federal government through the FERC. FERC sets rules and carries out administratively the oversight of interstate markets for natural gas and other energy policy. Additionally, state regulators have powers over sale, supply and delivery of natural gas and oil within their state borders. While we employ certain companies to represent our interests before state regulatory agencies, our interests may not receive favorable rulings from any state agency, or some future occurrence may drastically alter our ability to enter into contracts or deliver natural gas to the market.Oil and natural gas reserves are depleting assets, and the failure to replace our reserves would adversely affect our production and cash flows.Our future oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs production depends on our success in finding or acquiring new reserves. If we fail to replace reserves, our level of production and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Production from natural gas and oil properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities and/or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. Further, we may not be successful in exploring for, developing or 29Table of Contentsacquiring additional reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations.Exploration is a high risk activity, and our participation in drilling activities may not be successful.Our future success will largely depend on the success of our exploration drilling program. Participation in exploration drilling activities involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:•Unexpected drilling conditions;•Blowouts, fires or explosions with resultant injury, death or environmental damage;•Pressure or irregularities in formations;•Environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, crude oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the environment;•Uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine water or drilling fluids;•Equipment failures or accidents;•Adverse weather conditions;•Compliance with governmental requirements and laws, present and future; and•Shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment or obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing operations.We use available seismic data to assist in the location of potential drilling sites. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and other visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Poor results from our drilling activities would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and results of operations. In addition, using seismic data and other advanced technologies involves substantial upfront costs and is more expensive than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of these expenditures.Reserve estimates depend on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates, which may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves.The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves.There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and their values, many of which are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas or oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil or natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend on many variables and assumptions, such as:•Historical oil or natural gas production from that area, compared with production from other producing areas;•Assumptions concerning the effects of regulations by governmental agencies;•Assumptions concerning future prices;•Assumptions concerning future operating costs;•Assumptions concerning severance and excise taxes; and•Assumptions concerning development costs and workover and remedial costs.Any of these variables or assumptions could vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil or natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineer at different times, may vary substantially. Because of this, our reserve estimates may materially change at any time.30Table of ContentsYou should not consider the present values of estimated future net cash flows referred to in this Form 10-K to be the current market value of the estimated reserves attributable to our properties. For 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices and costs in effect when the estimate is made. Current or actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as:•The amount and timing of actual production;•Supply and demand for oil or natural gas;•Actual prices received for oil or natural gas in the future being different than those used in the estimate;•Curtailments or increases in consumption of oil or natural gas;•Changes in governmental regulations or taxation; and•The timing of both production and expenses in connection with the development and production of oil or natural gas properties.In this Form 10-K, the net present value of estimated future net revenues at December 31, 2013 is calculated using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price and a 10% discount rate. This price and rate are not necessarily the most appropriate price or discount factor based on prices and interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the natural gas and oil industry in general.Future downward revisions of the present value of our proved reserves and increased drilling expenditures without current additions to proved reserves may lead to write downs in the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. We are subject to the full cost ceiling limitation which has resulted in past write-downs of estimated net reserves and may result in a write-down in the future if commodity prices continue to decline.Under the full cost method of accounting, we are subject to quarterly calculations of a “ceiling” or limitation on the amount of our oil and natural gas properties that can be capitalized on our balance sheet. We may experience write downs of the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties in the future if the present value of our proved oil and natural gas reserves is lower than our remaining unamortized capitalized costs. If the net capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties exceed the cost ceiling, we are subject to a ceiling test write-down of our estimated net reserves to the extent of such excess. If required, it would reduce earnings and impact stockholders’ equity in the period of occurrence and result in lower amortization expense in future periods. The discounted present value of our proved reserves is a major component of the ceiling calculation and represents the component that requires the most subjective judgments. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when natural gas and crude oil prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, a write-down of proved oil and natural gas properties may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, if there are differences in timing between the incurrence of significant costs of exploration or development activities and the recognition of significant proved reserves resulting from such activities and if we experience unsuccessful drilling activities. Expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher natural gas and crude oil prices may have increased the ceiling applicable in the subsequent period.The limited availability or high costs of hydraulic fracturing services in our current operating areas could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of materials, equipment, supplies and services, such as drilling rigs, fracture stimulation services and tubulars, well servicing equipment, gathering systems and transportation pipelines. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of those materials, equipment, supplies and services necessary to execute our drilling program are substantially greater. Shortages of fracturing equipment, water for hydraulic fracturing activities, and crews required for complex horizontal well completions in the Appalachian Basin could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not included in our capital budget. Delays could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations, including the timing of the initiation of production from new wells. See “—Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of natural gas and oil wells and adversely affect our production” for a discussion of legislative and regulatory initiatives that could significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing and therefore make it more difficult or costly for us to perform hydraulic fracturing.We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate, which may affect the timing and success of our future operations.Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest, specifically the Mid-Continent oil play. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our 31Table of Contentsdependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including:•Timing and amount of capital expenditures;•The operator’s expertise and financial resources;•Approval of other participants in drilling wells; and•Selection of technology.As of December 31, 2013, 148 gross (25.3 net) wells in which we have an interest were operated by other companies. The representations, warranties and indemnifications of the Chesapeake Parties contained in the Chesapeake Purchase Agreement and of the Lime Rock Parties contained in the WEHLU Purchase Agreement are limited. As a result, the assumptions on which our estimates of future results of the acquired assets have been based may prove to be incorrect in a number of material ways, resulting in our not realizing the expected benefits of the acquisitions. The acquisitions could also expose us to additional unknown and contingent liabilities. The representations and warranties of the Chesapeake Parties contained in the Chesapeake Purchase Agreement and of the Lime Rock Parties contained in the WEHLU Purchase Agreement are limited. In addition, these agreements provide limited indemnities. As a result, the assumptions on which our estimates of future results of the acquired assets have been based may prove to be incorrect in a number of material ways, resulting in our not realizing our expected benefits of the acquisitions, including anticipated increased cash flow.The acquisitions could expose us to additional unknown and contingent liabilities. We have performed a certain level of diligence in connection with the acquisitions and have attempted to verify the representations made by the Chesapeake Parties and the Lime Rock Parties, but there may be unknown and contingent liabilities related to the acquired assets of which we are unaware. The Chesapeake Parties and the Lime Rock Parties have agreed to indemnify us for losses or claims relating to the acquired assets and otherwise subject to the limitations described in the Chesapeake Purchase Agreement and WEHLU Purchase Agreement, respectively. We could be liable for unknown obligations relating to the acquired assets for which indemnification is not available, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flow.The indenture governing our senior secured notes and the agreement governing our revolving credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business.The indenture governing our 8 5/8% Senior Secured Notes due 2018 (the “Notes”) and the documentation governing our current revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) contain customary restrictions on our activities, including covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to:•Transfer or sell assets or use asset sale proceeds;•Incur or guarantee additional debt or issue preferred equity securities;•Pay dividends, redeem subordinated debt or make other restricted payments;•Make certain investments;•Create or incur certain liens on our assets;•Incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries;•Enter into certain transactions with affiliates;•Merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;•Enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; and•Take or omit to take any actions that would adversely affect or impair in any material respect the collateral securing the Notes.In addition, our Revolving Credit Facility requires us to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio when excess availability under our revolving credit facility is less than a specified level or a specified event of default occurs for a specified duration. See “Financial Statements, Note 4, “Long-Term Debt.”The restrictions in the indenture governing the Notes and in the agreement governing our Revolving Credit Facility may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to 32Table of Contentssuccessfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the Notes or under the agreement governing our Revolving Credit Facility. An event of default under our Revolving Credit Facility could permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations, including our Revolving Credit Facility and the Notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the indentures governing our Notes, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Revolving Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Notes currently restrict our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.The borrowing base under our Revolving Credit Facility is currently $100.0 million, and there are no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is expected to occur in May 2014. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our Revolving Credit Facility as a result of a decrease in our borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent semi-annual borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender's portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out our business plan, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness.If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We use hedges to mitigate our oil and natural gas price risk with counterparties. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. We cannot provide assurance that our counterparties will honor their obligations now or in the future. A counterparty’s insolvency or inability or unwillingness to make payments required under terms of derivative instruments with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At the date of filing of this Form 10-K, our counterparties were Cargill, Inc., Comerica Bank, N.A., ING Capital Markets LLC, Koch Supply & Trading, LP and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. From time to time, we are subject to various significant legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. No assurance can be given regarding the outcome of these legal proceedings. Litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, however, can result in substantial costs and diversion of resources from our business. These costs would be reflected in terms of dollar outlay as well as the amount of time, attention and other resources that our management would have to appropriate to the defense of such claims. Considerable legal, accounting and other professional services expenses have been 33Table of Contentsincurred in legal proceedings to date and significant expenditures may continue to be incurred in the future. Defense costs and any adverse outcome could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information on our legal proceedings, see Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies Litigation”, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.Deficiencies of title to our leased interests could significantly affect our financial condition.Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in oil and natural gas leases is not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers and others to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental or county clerk’s office before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to drilling an exploration well, the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drillsite lease or spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. It does happen, from time-to-time, that the examination made by the operator’s title lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to stringent and complex laws and regulations, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities and adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business.Our oil and natural gas exploration and production interest and operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, regional and local laws and regulations relating to the operation and maintenance of our facilities, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground, the discharge of materials into the environment and otherwise relating to environmental protection. Oil and natural gas operations are also subject to federal, state, regional and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain occupational health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of drilling methods and equipment.Governmental authorities administering these laws and any implementing regulations require various timely permits, including drilling and environmental permits, before conducting regulated activities and we cannot assure you that such permits will be received. The failure or delay in obtaining the requisite approvals or permits may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, these laws and regulations impose numerous obligations and restrictions that are applicable to our interests and operations including, but not limited to:•Drilling and abandonment bonds or other financial responsibility assurances;•Restriction on types, quantities and concentration of materials that may be released into the environment;•Reports concerning operations;•Spacing of wells;•Limits or prohibitions on drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas;•The application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection;•The imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations;•Limitations on access to properties;•Taxation; and•Other regulatory controls on operating activities.In addition, regulatory agencies have from time to time imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the flow rate of wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas.Failure to comply with these laws and regulations applicable to our interests and operations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting some or all of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Legal requirements are sometimes unclear or subject to reinterpretation and may be amended in response to economic or political conditions. As a result, it is hard to predict the ultimate future cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our interests and operations. In addition, existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. For example, in response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the 34Table of Contentsdisposal of oil and gas-related wastewaters, federal and some state agencies have begun investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells; if new regulatory initiatives are implemented that restrict or prohibit the use of underground injection wells in areas where we rely upon the use of such wells in our operations, our costs to operate may significantly increase and our ability to conduct continue production may be delayed or limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of natural gas and oil wells and adversely affect our production.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations such as shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels and published final permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. Also, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states, including Pennsylvania and West Virginia, where we operate, have adopted and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic activities in particular. In the event that new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate or where we own working interests, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.In addition, certain governmental reviews have been conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing activities, with a draft report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. Also, in May 2013, the BLM published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian oil and gas leases that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface. These studies, depending on their results, could spur initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or under newly established legislation. We could incur significant costs and liabilities in responding to contamination that occurs as a result of our operations.There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations or in operations in which we own a working interest as a result of the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to operations, and due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to strict, joint and several liabilities for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells or the wells in which we own a working interest are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly well drilling, construction, completion or water management activities, or waste , handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition.The process of drilling for and producing oil and natural gas involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses, and we may not have enough insurance to cover these risks adequately.The natural gas and oil business involves many operating hazards, such as:•Well blowouts, fires and explosions;35Table of Contents•Surface craterings and casing collapses;•Road collapses;•Uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine, water or well fluids;•Pipe and cement failures;•Formations with abnormal pressures;•Stuck drilling and service tools;•Pipeline or tank ruptures or spills;•Natural disasters; and•Environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, crude oil spills and unauthorized discharge of brine, toxic gases or well fluids.Any of these events could cause substantial losses to us as a result of:•Injury or death;•Damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;•Damage to natural resources due to underground migration of hydraulic fracturing fluids; •Pollution and other environmental damage, including spillage or mishandling of recovered hydraulic fracturing fluids;•Regulatory investigations and penalties;•Suspension of operations; and•Repair, restoration and remediation costs.We could also be responsible for environmental damage caused by previous owners of property from whom we purchased leases. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. Although we maintain what we believe is appropriate and customary insurance for these risks, the insurance may not be available or sufficient to cover all of these liabilities. If these liabilities are not covered by our insurance, paying them could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or result in the loss of our properties.Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.The President of the United States' budget proposal for the fiscal year 2013 recommended the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for U.S. production activities for oil and natural gas production, and (iv) the extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures.It is unclear whether any such changes will actually be enacted or, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could affect certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and production.Our oil and natural gas sales and our related hedging activities expose us to potential regulatory risks.The Federal Trade Commission, the FERC, and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil and natural gas and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.To the extent that we enter into transportation contracts with natural gas pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation, we are subject to FERC requirements related to use of such capacity. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations and policies, or with an interstate pipeline’s tariff, could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties.36Table of ContentsThe enactment of the Dodd–Frank Act could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.On July 21, 2010 new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Colombia in September of 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also may require us in connection with covered derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, for uncleared swaps, the CFTC or federal banking regulators may require end-users to enter into credit support documentation and/or post initial and variation margin. Posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The proposed margin rules are not yet final, and therefore the impact of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty.The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts, materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contractsor increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.Climate change legislation and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce.In response to findings made by the EPA in December 2009 that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that, among other things, establish PSD construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that are potential major sources of GHG emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet “best available control technology” standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. In addition, the EPA adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from certain sources in the United States, including, among others, onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities while Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a 37Table of Contentsnumber of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur significant added costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense. We are smaller and have less operating history than many of our competitors, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our results of operations.We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with other oil and natural gas companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated oil and natural gas companies, numerous independent oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do and, in many instances, have been engaged in the oil and natural gas business for a much longer time than we have. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase more properties and prospects than our financial and human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to spend more on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to the current and future success of oil and natural gas companies. Our ability to explore for oil and natural gas prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct our operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Increased competitive pressure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations.Acquisition prospects are difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations.Where appropriate, we may evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities on terms our management considers favorable. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties requires an assessment of:•Recoverable reserves;•Exploration potential;•Future natural gas and oil prices;•Operating costs;•Potential environmental and other liabilities; and•Permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations.In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every facility or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Future acquisitions could pose additional risks to our operations and financial results, including:•Problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies;•Unanticipated costs;•Diversion of resources and management attention from our exploration business;•Entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and•Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization.Technological changes could affect our operations.The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services utilizing new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a 38Table of Contentscompetitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement such new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, many other oil and natural gas companies have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may be unable to respond to such competitive pressures and implement such technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies that we currently use or may implement in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations.We depend on our key personnel, the loss of which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance.We depend, to a large extent, on the services of a limited number of senior management personnel and directors. Particularly, the loss of the services of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer could negatively impact our future operations. We have employment agreements with these key members of our senior management team; although, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management. We believe that our success is also dependent on our ability to continue to retain the services of skilled technical personnel. Our inability to retain skilled technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations.Some of our directors may not be subject to suit in the United States.Two of our five directors are citizens of Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors, to bring suit against them in the U.S. or to enforce in the U.S. courts any judgment obtained there against them predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Investors should not assume that Canadian courts will enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against those directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States or will enforce, in original actions, liabilities against those directors upon the U.S. federal securities laws or any such state securities or blue sky laws.Seasonal weather conditions and regulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and regulations designed to protect various wildlife. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.Our common stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile.The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of drilling and rig activity, economic conditions in the natural gas and oil industry, general economic conditions or other events or factors that are beyond our control.In addition, the stock market in general and the market for natural gas and oil exploration companies, in particular, have experienced large price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results or asset values of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously impact the market price and trading volume of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against certain natural gas and oil exploration companies. If this type of litigation were instituted against us following a period of volatility in our common stock trading price, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations.Future issuances of our common stock may adversely affect the price of our common stock.The future issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the public market, or the perception that such an issuance could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. A decline in the price of our common stock could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock.We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock.Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred shares and set the terms of the preferred shares without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. The preferred shares that we have issued rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends and liquidation rights. We may 39Table of Contentsissue additional preferred shares that rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights or voting rights. If we issue additional preferred shares in the future, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment.We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the expansion of our business. In addition, the Notes contain covenants that prohibit the payment of dividends and the Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants that prohibit us from paying cash dividends as long as such debt remains outstanding. The payment of future dividends, if any, will be determined by our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, restrictions in financing agreements, business conditions and other factors. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment, which may not occur.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.