ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Factors Affecting Future Operating Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements concerning our future programs, expenses, revenue, liquidity and cash needs as well as our plans and strategies. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information, except as required by applicable laws and regulations. Numerous factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the results described in these forward-looking statements, including the following risk factors. Because our auditors have issued a going concern opinion, there is substantial uncertainty we will continue activities in which case you could lose your investment. Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion. This means that there is substantial doubt that we can continue as an ongoing business for the next twelve months. As such we may have to cease activities and you could lose your investment. We lack an operating history and have losses which we expect to continue into the future. As a result, we may have to suspend or cease activities, which would result in a complete loss of any investment made into the Company. We were incorporated on October 30, 2007 and we have not started our proposed business activities or realized any revenues. Since inception we have accumulated a loss of $55,489. We have no operating history upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. Based upon current plans, we expect to incur operating losses in future periods. This will happen because there are expenses associated with the research. Failure to generate revenues will cause us to suspend or cease activities. 5 If we are able to complete financing through the sale of additional shares of our common stock in the future, then shareholders will experience dilution. The most likely source of future financing presently available to us is through the sale of shares of our common stock. Any sale of common stock will result in dilution of equity ownership to existing shareholders. This means that if we sell shares of our common stock, more shares will be outstanding and each existing shareholder will own a smaller percentage of the shares then outstanding. To raise additional capital we may have to issue additional shares, which may substantially dilute the interests of existing shareholders. Alternatively, we may have to borrow large sums, and assume debt obligations that require us to make substantial interest and capital payments. We are subject to the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price and results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We are required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to maintain an ongoing evaluation and integration of the internal controls of our business. We were required to document and test our internal controls and certify that we are responsible for maintaining an adequate system of internal control procedures for the year ended December 31, 2009. In subsequent years, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to opine on those internal controls and management’s assessment of those controls. In the process, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and we may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. We evaluated our existing controls for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and determined that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. The identified material weaknesses did not result in material audit adjustments to our 2009 financial statements; however, uncured material weaknesses could negatively impact our financial statements for subsequent years. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 or that our auditors will not have to report a material weakness in connection with the presentation of our financial statements. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if our auditor’s report such material weakness, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual report may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, we believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running the day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could be significant. If the time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 