ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy on a timely basis or at all. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to implement our growth strategy of expanding distribution and improving placement of our products, attracting new consumers to our brand and introducing new product lines and product extensions. Our ability to implement this growth strategy depends, among other things, on our ability to: •enter into distribution and other strategic arrangements with third-party retailers and other potential distributors of our products; •continue to compete in conventional grocery and mass merchandiser retail channels in addition to the natural and organic channel; •secure shelf space in mainstream aisles; •increase our brand recognition; •expand and maintain brand loyalty; and •develop new product lines and extensions. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy. Our sales and operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to implement our growth strategy or if we invest resources in a growth strategy that ultimately proves unsuccessful. If we fail to develop and maintain our brand, our business could suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining our brand is critical to our success. The importance of our brand recognition may become greater as competitors offer more products similar to ours. Our brand-building activities involve increasing awareness of our brand, creating and maintaining brand loyalty and increasing the availability of our products. If our brand-building activities are unsuccessful, we may never recover the expenses incurred in connection with these efforts, and we may be unable to implement our business strategy and increase our future sales. Our brand and reputation may be diminished due to real or perceived quality or health issues with our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.We believe our consumers rely on us to provide them with high-quality natural and organic food products. Concerns regarding the ingredients used in our products or the safety or quality of our products or our supply chain may cause consumers to stop purchasing our products, even if the basis for the concern is unfounded, has been addressed or is outside of our control. There can be no assurance that our products will always comply with the standards set for our products. For example, although we strive to keep our products free of genetically modified organisms, they may not be easily detected and contamination can occur through cross-pollination. Also, although we have transitioned our canned pasta meals to a can lining that does not contain bisphenol-A, commonly called BPA, there is no guarantee that concerns regarding our new packaging will not develop in the future. Adverse publicity about the quality or safety of our products, whether or not ultimately based on fact, may discourage consumers from buying our products and have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results. We have no control over our products once purchased by consumers. Accordingly, consumers may prepare our products in a manner that is inconsistent with our directions or store our products for long periods of time, which may adversely affect the quality of our products. If consumers do not perceive our products to be of high quality, then the value of our brand would be diminished, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Any loss of confidence on the part of consumers in the ingredients used in our products or in the safety and quality of our products would be difficult and costly to overcome. For example, we were sued by a private organization claiming that warnings are required in California under Proposition 65 for alleged exposures to lead and lead compounds from cookies that contain ginger or molasses, including our Gluten-Free Ginger Snap Bunny Cookies. Any such adverse effect could be exacerbated by our position in the market as a purveyor of high-quality natural and organic food products and may significantly 11Table of Contentsreduce our brand value. Issues regarding the safety of any of our products, regardless of the cause, may have a substantial and adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes illness or physical harm. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury or illness to consumers. Such injuries or illness may result from inadvertent mislabeling, tampering or product contamination or spoilage. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall or withdraw products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, in 2008, we carried out an FDA Class I recall for approximately 680 cases of our salad dressing due to ingredient mislabeling and, in January 2013, we carried out an FDA Class II recall for our frozen pizza products due to the possible presence of fragments of flexible metal mesh from a faulty screen at a third-party flour mill. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall or market withdrawal, product liability claims may be asserted against us. If the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a health-related illness, we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or physical harm could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential distributors, retailers and consumers and our corporate image and brand equity. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall or market withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. We may not have the resources to compete successfully in our highly competitive markets. We operate in a highly and increasingly competitive market. Numerous brands and products compete for limited retailer shelf space and consumers. In our market, competition is based on, among other things, product quality and taste, brand recognition and loyalty, product variety, interesting or unique product names, product packaging and package design, shelf space, reputation, price, advertising, promotion and nutritional claims. We face increased competition in our markets due to increased adoption of natural and organic food products by consumers. The packaged food industry is dominated by multinational corporations with substantially greater resources and operations than us. We cannot be certain that we will successfully compete with larger competitors that have greater financial, sales and technical resources. Conventional food companies, including Kraft Foods Group Inc., General Mills, Inc., Mondelez International, Inc., Campbell Soup Company, PepsiCo, Inc., Nestle S.A. and Kellogg Company, may be able to use their resources and scale to respond to competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products (including natural and organic products), reducing prices or increasing promotional activities, among other things. We also compete with other natural and organic packaged food brands and companies, including The Hain Celestial Group, Inc., Newman’s Own, Inc., Nature’s Path Foods, Inc., Clif Bar & Company, Amy’s Kitchen and The WhiteWave Foods Company, which is the owner of the Horizon Organic brand, and with smaller companies, which may be more innovative and able to bring new products to market faster and to more quickly exploit and serve niche markets. Retailers also market competitive products under their own private labels, which are generally sold at lower prices and compete with some of our products. In addition, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., recently announced that it would begin carrying the Wild Oats line of organic products with pricing competitive to non-organic products. The entry of a retailer with the resources and scale of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. may have a significant effect on the market for organic products. As a result of competition, we may need to increase our marketing, advertising and promotional spending, refrain from increasing prices or decrease our prices to protect our existing market share, which may adversely impact our profitability. We may not have the financial resources to increase such spending when necessary. Failure to introduce new products or improve existing products successfully would adversely affect our ability to continue to grow. A key element of our growth strategy depends on our ability to develop and market new products and improvements to our existing products that meet our standards for quality and appeal to consumer preferences. The success of our innovation and product development efforts is affected by our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, the technical capability of our product development staff and co-packers in developing and testing product prototypes, including complying with governmental regulations, and the success of our management and sales team in introducing and marketing new products. Failure to develop and market new products that appeal to consumers may lead to a decrease in our growth, sales and profitability. Additionally, the development and introduction of new products requires substantial research, development and marketing expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. Introduction of new products, and particularly new product lines, involve significant estimates in forecasting demand. To the extent sales do not meet our forecasts, we may experience increased inventory obsolescence and sales through discount channels and fail to meet our sales and earnings goals. Efforts to accelerate our innovation may exacerbate risks associated with 12Table of Contentsinnovation. If we are unsuccessful in meeting our objectives with respect to new or improved products, our business could be harmed. For example, our breakfast cereals line of products did not meet our growth objectives, and we discontinued it in fiscal 2012. Additionally, we cannot assure you that recent new product introductions will gain widespread market acceptance or be successful.Ingredient and packaging costs are volatile and may rise significantly, which may negatively impact the profitability of our business. We purchase large quantities of raw materials, including ingredients such as wheat and flour, dairy products, oils and sugar. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of cardboard, film and glass to package our products. Costs of ingredients and packaging are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, weather conditions, demand and changes in governmental trade and agricultural programs. For example, in fiscal 2014, organic wheat prices did not moderate as we anticipated, due to increased demand and limited supply. Continued volatility in the prices of raw materials and other supplies we purchase could increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability. Moreover, we may not be able to implement price increases for our products to cover any increased costs, and any price increases we do implement may result in lower sales volumes. Cost increases for organic and non-GMO raw materials that exceed cost increases for their conventional counterparts may exacerbate these risks. If we are not successful in managing our ingredient and packaging costs, if we are unable to increase our prices to cover increased costs or if such price increases reduce our sales volumes, then such increases in costs will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our future business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by reduced availability of organic ingredients. Our ability to ensure a continuing supply of organic and non-GMO ingredients at competitive prices depends on many factors beyond our control, such as the number and size of farms that grow organic and non-GMO crops or raise organic livestock, the vagaries of these farming businesses (including poor harvests), changes in national and world economic conditions, demand and our ability to forecast our ingredient requirements. The ingredients used in many of our products are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes and pestilences. Adverse weather conditions (caused by climate change or otherwise) and natural disasters can lower crop yields and reduce crop size and quality, which in turn could reduce the available supply of, or increase the price of, our ingredients. For example, in fiscal 2014, organic wheat was in shorter supply than we expected, which impacted our costs. In addition, we purchase some ingredients offshore, and the availability of such ingredients may be affected by events in other countries, including Colombia, Paraguay, Thailand, Turkey and Brazil. We compete with other food producers in the procurement of organic ingredients, which are often less plentiful in the open market than conventional ingredients. This competition may increase in the future if consumer demand for organic or non-GMO products increases, if the number of producers of organic or non-GMO products increases or if existing producers expand competition for organic and non-GMO ingredients. Retailer decisions, such as Wal-Mart’s recent announcement regarding the Wild Oats line, may drive increased production. If regulations are adopted requiring labeling of products that contain genetically modified organisms, the competition for non-GMO ingredients may increase. If supplies of organic and non-GMO ingredients are reduced or there is greater demand for such ingredients from us and others, we may not be able to obtain sufficient supply on favorable terms, or at all, which could impact our ability to supply products to distributors and retailers and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2014, we have concluded that there is a material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Specifically, we identified a material weakness relating to an insufficient complement of finance and accounting resources, including employee turnover, within the organization resulting in design deficiencies in certain areas in which our controls were not precise enough to detect misstatements that in the aggregate could be material to the consolidated financial statements. This material weakness did not result in any material misstatements of our consolidated financial statements and disclosures for any interim period during, or for the annual periods ended March 31, of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, but did result in audit adjustments for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2014 and certain immaterial misstatements to our consolidated financial statements for the first three quarters of fiscal 2014, the interim periods during, and the annual period ended March 31, of fiscal 2013 and the year ended March 31, 2012. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 13Table of ContentsCondition and Results of Operations—Revision of Financial Statements” and Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result of this material weakness, management has determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of March 31, 2014.Management believes that significant progress has been made during the year ended March 31, 2014, and through the date of this report, in remediating the underlying causes of the material weakness. We have taken, and will continue to take, a number of actions to improve our internal controls designed to remediate this material weakness. Among other things, we have (i) augmented and hired additional accounting and finance resources and professionals, including a new Chief Financial Officer in November 2013 and a new Controller in March 2014, together with other senior hires in the accounting and finance organizations; (ii) developed and implemented an improved methodology and process for capturing and recording all trade promotion costs and this calculation will be reviewed by our Controller for each quarter; (iii) made our President responsible for the oversight of all items included in the calculation of gross to net sales; (iv) designed a control to review the reconciliations with our contract manufacturers on a quarterly basis; (v) enhanced our documentation of our estimation and reconciliation of our contract manufacturing receivables and payables; (vi) engaged an external audit firm to assist with our internal audit function and SOX testing; and (vii) established a controls committee comprised of members of our Board of Directors, senior management and the aforementioned external audit firm, which reports directly to our Board of Directors. The actions that we are taking are subject to ongoing senior management review, as well as audit committee oversight. Additional information about our remediation efforts and internal control over financial reporting are described in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Form 10-K. We expect to incur additional costs remediating this material weakness.We may need to take additional measures to fully mitigate these issues, and the measures we have taken, and expect to take, to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to address the issues identified, to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weakness will not result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. In addition, other material weaknesses or deficiencies may be identified in the future. If we are unable to correct material weaknesses or deficiencies in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC, will be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and generally materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition.We rely on sales to a limited number of distributors and retailers for the substantial majority of our sales, and the loss of one or more significant distributors or retailers may harm our business. A substantial majority of our sales are generated from a limited number of distributors and retailers. For fiscal 2014, sales to our three largest customers represented approximately 22%, 15% and 13% of our net sales. Although the composition of our significant distributors and retailers will vary from period to period, we expect that most of our sales will continue to come from a relatively small number of distributors and retailers for the foreseeable future. We do not have commitments or minimum volumes that ensure future sales of our products. Consequently, our financial results may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the actions or business performance of one or more significant distributors or retailers. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, one of our major customers reduced inventory carrying levels, which contributed to lower sales growth from that customer. Furthermore, to the extent that our sales growth in the mass merchandiser/other channel exceeds growth in our other channels, our gross margin may be adversely impacted. A distributor or retailer may take actions that affect us for reasons that we cannot always anticipate or control, such as their financial condition, changes in their business strategy or operations, the introduction of competing products or the perceived quality of our products. These risks may be exacerbated by consolidation among retailers. Customers, such as supermarkets and food distributors in North America continue to consolidate. This consolidation has produced larger, more sophisticated organizations with increased negotiating and buying power that are able to resist price increases or demand increased promotional programs, as well as operate with lower inventories, decrease the number of brands that they carry and increase their emphasis on private label products, which could negatively impact our business. The consolidation of retail customers also increases the risk that a significant adverse impact on their business could have a corresponding material adverse impact on our business. In addition, despite operating in different channels, our retailers sometimes compete for the same consumers. As a result of actual or perceived conflicts resulting from this competition, retailers may take actions that negatively affect us. Our agreements with our distributors and retailers may be canceled or subject us to penalties or other charges if we materially breach the agreements or for other reasons, including reasons outside of our control. In addition, our distributors and retailers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. The loss of, or a reduction in sales or anticipated sales to, one or more of our most significant distributors or retailers may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 14Table of ContentsLoss of one or more of our contract manufacturers or our failure to identify timely new contract manufacturers could harm our business and impede our growth. During fiscal 2014, we derived all of our sales from products manufactured at manufacturing facilities owned and operated by our contract manufacturers. Despite our acquisition of the Joplin Plant in April 2014, we continue to derive the significant majority of our sales from products manufactured at manufacturing facilities owned and operated by our contract manufacturers. We do not have written contracts with all of our contract manufacturers. Production of many of our products may involve more than one contract manufacturer or a combination of our Joplin Plant and a contract manufacturer, particularly in connection with packaging. A substantial percentage of our products, calculated on net sales basis, are handled by Peacock Engineering, our largest packaging partner. Any of our contract manufacturers could seek to alter its relationship with us. Additionally, even where we have a written contract, pricing and other key terms may be subject to change. If we need to replace a contract manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional capacity will be available when required on acceptable terms, or at all. Any interruption in, or the loss of operations at, one or more of our contract manufacturing facilities, which may be caused by work stoppages, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters at one or more of these facilities, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, especially until such time as such interruption is resolved or an alternate source of production is secured. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong manufacturing platform. We believe there are a limited number of competent, high-quality contract manufacturers in the industry that meet our strict standards, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative contract manufacturing arrangements in the future, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. Therefore, the loss of one or more contract manufacturers, any disruption or delay at a contract manufacturer, any inability of a contract manufacturer to meet our capacity needs or any failure to identify and engage contract manufacturers for new products or increased capacity requirements could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the past, changing the contract manufacturer for one of our product lines took approximately six months to implement. At present, we do not have back-up contract manufacturers identified for certain of our product lines, and the loss of contract manufacturers for any of these product lines would result in our inability to produce and deliver the products to our customers until we could identify and retain an alternative contract manufacturer and until that contract manufacturer was able to produce the products to our specifications or other requirements. We may fail to realize the productivity enhancements and other benefits expected from our acquisition of the Joplin Plant.The success of the Joplin Plant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to control costs, drive incremental volume, successfully integrate the Joplin Plant into our company and operate the plant profitably. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, efforts to integrate the Joplin Plant into our company may also divert management attention and resources. Issues that may arise in connection with integrating the Joplin Plant include, among other things: integration of manufacturing and distribution activities; implementation and management of information systems; conforming the manufacturing plant’s controls, procedures and accounting and other policies to our own; retaining key management and employees; and labor negotiations and collective bargaining. These risks are exacerbated by the fact that we have not previously operated a manufacturing plant. We expect there to be additional costs in connection with the integration of the Joplin Plant into our operations, including costs related to information technology systems, additional personnel needs at both the plant and corporate level, and transitional services provided by Safeway or its affiliates. In addition, our ability to realize the benefits expected from our acquisition is dependent on our ability to drive future sales growth in our cookie and cracker business. If the demand for our cookie and cracker products does not increase at the rate we expect over the long term, due to competition or other factors, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of the Joplin Plant successfully, control costs, drive incremental volume or operate the Joplin Plant as profitably as anticipated. Our beliefs regarding the benefits to be derived from the acquisition of the Joplin Plant are based on numerous assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could deviate materially from our expectations.In connection with the acquisition of the Joplin Plant, we have expanded our business model to include manufacturing for us and for an affiliate of the seller. We cannot assure you that our expansion into manufacturing and co-packing will succeed.Prior to acquiring the Joplin Plant in April 2014, we had not owned or operated a manufacturing plant and we may encounter financial and operational difficulties in operating the Joplin Plant. In the past, we relied exclusively on contract manufacturers to produce our products and we have not previously manufactured products for others. While we have invested 15Table of Contentsin manufacturing equipment and worked closely with our contract manufacturers on the manufacturing of our products and efficiency initiatives, the operation of a manufacturing plant presents additional challenges and risks for our business. Operating a manufacturing plant requires different operating strategies and different managerial experience than our current operations, and a manufacturing plant is subject to additional and different regulations than our current operations. Our lack of experience in operating manufacturing facilities and co-packing for third parties could cause the acquisition to result in fewer benefits to us than we anticipate, as well as increased costs. The operation of the Joplin Plant may also divert management’s attention from the development of our existing operations and cause our existing business to suffer.Work stoppages or other interruptions at the Joplin Plant may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.On April 17, 2014, we became party to a collective bargaining agreement with one union covering approximately 90% of our employees at the Joplin Plant. This agreement is scheduled to expire in September 2017. Upon expiration of the agreement, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate this collective bargaining agreement on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreement, or at all, without production interruptions caused by strikes or labor stoppages. Any interruption in, or the loss of operations at the Joplin Plant, which may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, tornadoes, other natural disasters or other events, could delay or postpone production or shipment of our products and the products that we have committed to manufacture for Safeway or result in additional costs or expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, especially until such time as such interruption is resolved or an alternate source of production, if any, is secured. Our results may be adversely affected by other risks related to our acquisition of the Joplin Plant.The acquisition of the Joplin Plant poses other risks, including diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, potential assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the seller and potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved or market conditions decline. Our business or financial results may be negatively affected if these risks materialize. Because we rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers, we may not be able to obtain raw materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities to produce our products. We rely on a limited number of vendors to supply us with raw materials. Our financial performance depends in large part on our ability to arrange for the purchase of raw materials in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We are not assured of continued supply, pricing or exclusive access to raw materials from these sources. Any of our suppliers could discontinue or seek to alter their relationship with us. For example, we may be adversely affected if they raise their prices, stop selling to us or our contract manufacturers or enter into arrangements that impair their ability to provide raw materials for us.Our single largest commodity exposure is organic wheat. During fiscal 2014, we incurred significantly higher costs for organic wheat, due to strong demand and limited supply. If supply of organic wheat does not improve, we might continue to experience high levels of input cost inflation. Limited availability of organic wheat could also limit our ability to fulfill consumer demand for our products. Although we have multiple suppliers for cheese, we have a single manufacturer for the cheese powders used in our products, including macaroni and cheese, cheddar crackers and snack mix. Products that contain these cheese powders represented a significant portion of our net sales for the periods presented, and we expect this to continue. Any disruption in the manufacturing of cheese powders would have a material adverse effect on our business. Events that adversely affect our suppliers could impair our ability to obtain raw material inventory in the quantities that we desire. Such events include problems with our suppliers’ businesses, finances, labor relations, ability to import raw materials, costs, production, insurance and reputation, as well as natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. If we experience significant increased demand for our products, or need to replace an existing supplier, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of raw materials will be available when required on acceptable terms, or at all, or that any supplier would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements, fill our orders in a timely manner or meet our strict quality standards. Even if our existing suppliers are able to expand their capacity to meet our needs or we are able to find new sources of raw materials, we may encounter delays in production, inconsistencies in quality and added costs. Any delays or interruption in, or increased costs of, our supply of raw materials could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet consumer demand for our products and result in lower net sales and profitability both in the short and long term. 16Table of ContentsDisruptions in the worldwide economy, and particularly in the United States and Canada, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse and uncertain economic conditions, particularly in the United States and Canada, may impact distributor, retailer and consumer demand for our products. In addition, our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, retailers, consumers and creditors may suffer. Consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced or other perceived value offerings during economic downturns. In particular, consumers may reduce the amount of natural and organic products that they purchase where there are conventional offerings, which generally have lower retail prices. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase private label products rather than branded products because they are generally less expensive. Distributors and retailers may become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories. For example, during the economic downturn from 2007 through 2009, distributors and retailers significantly reduced their inventories, and inventory levels have not returned to, and are not expected to return to, pre-downturn levels. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volume with our existing distributors and retailers, to attract new consumers and to provide products that appeal to consumers at prices they are willing and able to pay. Prolonged unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Consumer preferences for our products are difficult to predict and may change, and, if we are unable to respond quickly to new trends, our business may be adversely affected. Our business is focused on the development, manufacture, marketing and distribution of a line of branded natural and organic food products. If consumer demand for our products decreased, our business would suffer. In addition, sales of natural and organic products are subject to evolving consumer preferences. Consumer trends that we believe favor sales of our products could change based on a number of possible factors, including a shift in preference from organic to non-organic and from natural to non-natural products, a loss of confidence by consumers in what constitutes “organic,” economic factors and social trends. A significant shift in consumer demand away from our products could reduce our sales or the prestige of our brand, which would harm our business.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately or may become involved in intellectual property disputes, which may harm the value of our brand or adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that our intellectual property has substantial value and has contributed significantly to the success of our business. Our trademarks, including our “Annie’s®,” “Annie’s Homegrown®,” “Annie’s Naturals®” and “Bernie Rabbit of Approval®” marks, are valuable assets that reinforce our brand and consumers’ favorable perception of our products. We also rely on unpatented proprietary expertise, recipes and formulations and other trade secrets and copyright protection to develop and maintain our competitive position. Our continued success depends, to a significant degree, upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including our trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and copyrights. We rely on confidentiality agreements and trademark, trade secret and copyright law to protect our intellectual property rights. Our confidentiality agreements with our employees, and certain of our consultants, suppliers and independent contractors, including some of our contract manufacturers who use our recipes to manufacture our products, generally require that all information made known to them be kept strictly confidential. Nevertheless, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we attempt to protect our trade secrets, our confidentiality agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets, in which case we would not be able to assert trade secret rights against such parties. Further, some of our recipes and ingredient formulations have been developed by or with our suppliers and contract manufacturers and are not exclusive to us. Finally, we do not have written confidentiality agreements with all of our contract manufacturers. As a result, we may not be able to prevent others from using our recipes or formulations. From time to time, third parties have used names, product shapes or packaging similar to ours, have applied to register trademarks similar to ours and, we believe, have infringed or misappropriated our intellectual property rights. We respond to these actions on a case-by-case basis, including, where appropriate, by sending cease and desist letters and commencing opposition actions and litigation. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights are adequate, that our intellectual property rights can be successfully defended and asserted in the future or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate any such rights or claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights. In addition, our trademark rights and related registrations may be challenged in the future and could be canceled or narrowed. Failure to protect our trademark rights could prevent us in the future from challenging third parties who use names and logos similar to our trademarks, which may in turn cause consumer confusion or negatively affect consumers’ perception of our brand and products. In addition, if we do not keep our trade secrets confidential, others may produce products with our recipes or 17Table of Contentsformulations. Moreover, intellectual property disputes and proceedings and infringement claims may result in a significant distraction for management and significant expense, which may not be recoverable regardless of whether we are successful. Such proceedings may be protracted with no certainty of success, and an adverse outcome could subject us to liabilities, force us to cease use of certain trademarks or other intellectual property or force us to enter into licenses with others. Any one of these occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure by our suppliers of raw materials, contract manufacturers or the Joplin Plant to comply with food safety, environmental or other laws and regulations may disrupt our supply of products and adversely affect our business. If our suppliers, contract manufacturers or the Joplin Plant fail to comply with food safety, environmental or other laws and regulations, or face allegations of non-compliance, their or our operations may be disrupted. Any such failure could also cause us to recall our products. For example, in January 2013, we initiated a voluntary recall of our certified organic and made-with-organic pizza products. All of our contract manufacturers and the Joplin Plant are required to be certified in the Safe Quality Food Program or the BRC Global Standard for Food Safety. Additionally, the USDA requires that our certified organic products be free of genetically modified organisms, but unavoidable cross-pollination at one of our suppliers may result in genetically modified organisms in our supply chain. In the event of actual or alleged non-compliance, we might be forced to find an alternative supplier or contract manufacturer or make changes at the Joplin Plant. As a result, our supply of raw materials or finished inventory could be disrupted or our costs could increase, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, actions we may take to mitigate the impact of any such disruption or potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential supply or production interruption, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in existing regulations and the adoption of new regulations may increase our costs and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The manufacture and marketing of food products is highly regulated. We and our suppliers and contract manufacturers are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These laws and regulations apply to many aspects of our business, including the manufacture, packaging, labeling, distribution, advertising, sale, quality and safety of our products, as well as the health and safety of our employees and the protection of the environment. In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the FDA, USDA, Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also regulated outside the United States by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, as well as Canadian provincial and local agencies. In addition, we are subject to review by voluntary organizations, such as the Council of Better Business Bureaus’ National Advertising Division and the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative. We could incur costs, including fines, penalties and third-party claims, as a result of any violations of, alleged violations of, or liabilities under, such requirements. For example, in connection with the marketing and advertisement of our products, we could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising, including under the auspices of the FTC and the consumer protection statutes of some states. Any change in manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements for our products may lead to an increase in costs or interruptions in production, either of which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. New or revised government laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Food Safety Modernization Act passed in January 2011, which grants the FDA greater authority over the safety of the national food supply, as well as increased enforcement by government agencies, could result in additional compliance costs and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, withdrawals, recalls or seizures and confiscations, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Congress is considering the Food Labeling Modernization Act of 2013, which would require: uniform front of package labeling; adherence to new requirements for “natural,” “healthy,” and “whole grain” claims; disclosure of added colors, sweeteners, calories, trans fats, and total caffeine amount; revisions to ingredient declarations; changes to labels of single-serve packaging; and revisions to substantiation requirements for structure/function claims. Non-compliance with the majority of the proposed amendments would result in a product being deemed misbranded and subject to FDA enforcement actions. While the enactment of this bill is highly uncertain, it addresses issues that are under active consideration by FDA, consumer advocacy groups, and plaintiffs’ lawyers. Accordingly, the bill may play a role in influencing proposed FDA regulations that are anticipated in the near term and could shape or further reinforce litigation trends.18Table of ContentsOur brand and reputation may suffer from real or perceived issues involving the labeling and marketing of our products as “natural.” Although the FDA and USDA have each issued statements regarding the appropriate use of the word “natural,” there is no single, U.S. government-regulated definition of the term “natural” for use in the food industry. The resulting uncertainty has led to consumer confusion, distrust and legal challenges. Plaintiffs have commenced or threatened legal actions against a number of food companies that market “natural” products, asserting false, misleading and deceptive advertising and labeling claims. Such a claim has recently been threatened against us with respect to our salad dressings. As a result of claims like these, consumers may avoid purchasing products from us or seek alternatives, even if the basis for the claim is unfounded. Adverse publicity about these matters may discourage consumers from buying our products. The cost of defending against any such claims could be significant. Any loss of confidence on the part of consumers in the truthfulness of our labeling or ingredient claims would be difficult and costly to overcome and may significantly reduce our brand value. Uncertainty as to the ingredients used in our products, regardless of the cause, may have a substantial and adverse effect on our brand and our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, we use annatto as a color additive in certain of our products. Although annatto is a natural substance derived from achiote trees, in policy statements the FDA takes the position that annatto is an artificial color additive because it adds a color not normally found in the foods to which it is added. Although we have not received one, the FDA has issued warning letters to some companies selling products labeled as natural that contain annatto stating the labels are false and misleading. If we were forced by the FDA to cease the use of annatto in our products, consumers who demand orange-colored products, particularly macaroni and cheese, could stop buying our products, which would adversely affect our sales. The loss of independent certification on which we rely for a number of our products could harm our business. We rely on independent certification of our organic products and must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as such. Certain of our products could lose their “organic” certification if a contract manufacturing plant or the Joplin Plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. The loss of any independent certifications, including for reasons outside of our control, could harm our business. Failure by our transportation providers to deliver our products on time or at all could result in lost sales. We currently rely upon third-party transportation providers for a significant portion of our product shipments. Our utilization of delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact the ability of providers to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. We periodically change shipping companies, and we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely affect deliveries. In addition, we could incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those we receive from the third-party transportation providers that we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs and thereby adversely affect our operating results. If we do not manage our supply chain effectively, including inventory levels, our operating results may be adversely affected. The inability of any supplier, independent contract manufacturer, third-party distributor or transportation provider to deliver or perform for us in a timely or cost-effective manner could cause our operating costs to increase and our profit margins to decrease. We must continuously monitor our forecasts and orders with co-packers, our production at the Joplin Plant, our inventory and product mix against forecasted demand or risk having inadequate supplies to meet consumer demand as well as having too much inventory on hand that may reach its expiration date and become unsaleable or be sold at discount. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, our forecasting and production planning processes underestimated demand such that we experienced product shortages in our top items. If we are unable to manage our supply chain effectively and ensure that our products are available to meet consumer demand, our operating costs could increase and our profit margins could decrease. Virtually all of our finished goods inventory is located in one warehouse facility. Any damage or disruption at this facility would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The majority of our finished goods inventory is located in one warehouse facility owned and operated by a third party. A natural disaster, fire, power interruption, work stoppage or other unanticipated catastrophic event at this facility would significantly disrupt our ability to deliver our products and operate our business. If any material amount of our inventory were damaged, we would be unable to fulfill orders for our products and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. 19Table of ContentsWe may not be able to successfully implement initiatives to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. Failure to implement such initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability can depend significantly on our efforts to control our operating costs. Because many of our costs, such as ingredient, packaging and transportation costs can be affected by factors outside or substantially outside our control, we seek to control or reduce costs through operating efficiency or other initiatives. For example, in fiscal 2014, we completed implementation of a transportation management system. Such initiatives, which we often refer to internally as “fat rabbit” projects, are important to our success. For example, in fiscal 2014, we did not meet our earnings goals in part due to delayed “fat rabbit” projects. If in the future we are not able to identify and complete initiatives designed to control or reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost savings initiatives we have implemented to date or any future cost-savings initiatives do not generate expected cost savings, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our results of operations for our second and fourth fiscal quarters and changes in our promotional activities may impact, and may have a disproportionate effect on, our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that may have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations. Historically, we have realized a higher portion of our net sales, net income and operating cash flows in our second and fourth fiscal quarters due to our customers’ merchandising and promotional activities around the back-to-school and spring seasons. Any factors that harm our second and fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including disruptions in our supply chain, adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, may have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. In order to prepare for our peak seasons, we must order or produce and maintain higher quantities of inventory than we would carry at other times of the year. As a result, our working capital requirements also fluctuate during the year, increasing in our first and third fiscal quarters in anticipation of our second and fourth fiscal quarters, respectively. In response to product shortages experienced in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we significantly increased inventory levels, particularly in our top-selling items. Any unanticipated decline in demand for our products during our peak seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown or write-off goods we are unable to sell, which could diminish our brand and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we offer a variety of sales and promotion incentives to our customers and to consumers, such as price discounts, consumer coupons, volume rebates, cooperative marketing programs, slotting fees and in-store displays. Our net sales are periodically influenced by the efficiency of our trade programs as well as the introduction and discontinuance of sales and promotion incentives. Reductions in overall sales and promotion incentives could impact our net sales and affect our results of operations in any particular fiscal quarter. Historical quarter-to-quarter and period-over-period comparisons of our sales and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future fiscal quarter-to-fiscal quarter and period-over-period results. Investors should not rely on the results of a single fiscal quarter or period as an indication of our annual results or our future performance.To the extent our customers purchase product in excess of consumer consumption in any period, our sales in a subsequent period may be adversely affected as customers seek to reduce their inventory levels. To the extent customers seek to reduce their usual or customary inventory levels or change their willingness to purchase product in excess of consumer consumption, our sales may be adversely affected.From time to time, customers may purchase more product than they expect to sell to consumers during a particular time period. Customers may grow their inventory in anticipation of, or during, our promotional events, which typically provide for reduced prices during a specified time or other customer or consumer incentives. Customers may also grow inventory in anticipation of a price increase for our products. If a customer increases its inventory during a particular reporting period as a result of a promotional event, anticipated price increase or otherwise, then sales during the subsequent reporting period may be adversely impacted as customers seek to reduce their inventory to usual levels. This effect may be particularly pronounced when the promotional event, price increase or other event occurs near the end or beginning of a reporting period or when there are changes in the timing of a promotional event, price increase or similar event, as compared to the prior year. To the extent customers seek to reduce their usual or customary inventory levels or change their practices regarding purchases in excess of consumer consumption, our sales and results of operations would be adversely impacted in that period.Failure to retain our senior management may adversely affect our operations. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued service of certain members of our senior management, including John M. Foraker, our Chief Executive Officer, or CEO. These members of senior management have been primarily responsible 20Table of Contentsfor determining the strategic direction of our business and for executing our growth strategy and are integral to our brand and culture, and the reputation we enjoy with suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, retailers and consumers. The loss of the services of any of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace them on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, any such departure could be viewed in a negative light by investors and analysts, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our senior management.If we are unable to attract, train and retain employees, we may not be able to grow or successfully operate our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of employees who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to represent our brand effectively and establish credibility with our business partners and consumers. If we are unable to hire and retain employees capable of meeting our business needs and expectations, our business and brand image may be impaired. Any failure to meet our staffing needs or any material turnover among our employees may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on information technology systems and any inadequacy, failure, interruption or security breach of those systems may harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We are dependent on various information technology systems, including, but not limited to, networks, applications and outsourced services in connection with the operation of our business. A failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing and operational inefficiencies and loss of sales, causing our business to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, viruses and security breaches, cyber-attacks and spear phishing. Our technology systems are primarily based in the San Francisco Bay area in California, which is prone to earthquakes. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan and we do not carry insurance for earthquakes. To the extent our systems are damaged or interrupted, and we are unable to implement an effective recovery plan, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we sell our products over the internet through third-party websites, including those operated by Amazon.com. The website operations of such third parties may be affected by reliance on third-party hardware and software providers, technology changes, risks related to the failure of computer systems through which these website operations are conducted, telecommunications failures, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Furthermore, the ability of our third-party partners to conduct these website operations may be affected by liability for online content and state and federal privacy laws. A failure of our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system could impact our ability to operate our business, lead to internal control and reporting weaknesses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In fiscal 2013, we implemented a new ERP information management system to provide for greater depth and breadth of functionality and effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, inventory and warehouse management and other business processes. We plan to add additional functionality in the future, including in connection with the integration of the Joplin Plant. A failure of the system to perform as we anticipate may result in transaction errors, processing and operational inefficiencies and the loss of sales, may otherwise disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and may harm our ability to accurately forecast demand, manage our supply chain and production facilities, fulfill customer orders and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, due to the systemic internal control features within ERP systems, we may experience difficulties that may affect our internal control over financial reporting, which may create a material weakness in our overall internal controls. Any material weaknesses in our internal controls may impede our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could cause us to fail to file our periodic reports timely, result in inaccurate financial reporting or restatements of our financial statements, subject our stock to delisting and materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The risks associated with our ERP system may be exacerbated by efforts to integrate the Joplin Plant.21Table of ContentsIndebtedness could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As of March 31, 2014, we had borrowing availability of $40.0 million under our revolving credit facility. Subject to the limitations contained in the credit agreement governing our credit facility, we may be able to incur substantial indebtedness from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, stock buybacks or for other purposes. If we do so, our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: •requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; •exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under the credit facility will be at variable rates of interest; •limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; •placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and •increasing our cost of borrowing. Additionally, restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may limit our operational flexibility. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Indebtedness.”We may engage in future acquisition endeavors, and future acquisitions, if any, may not be successful, both of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may from time to time explore acquisitions. Exploring or pursuing acquisitions may divert management’s attention from other business concerns and cause us to incur additional costs, anticipated or otherwise. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition could depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to compete with other potentially interested parties, obtain financing on acceptable terms and secure consent under our credit agreement. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of acquired companies; managing geographically dispersed operations; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, one-time write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions that we may pursue could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may lose part or all of your investment. The market price for our common stock is likely to be volatile, in part because our shares have only been traded publicly since March 28, 2012, and such volatility may be exacerbated by our relatively small public float. For example, the price of our common stock on the NYSE reached a high of $52.38 and a low of $34.90 per share in the second and fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, respectively. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: •market conditions or trends in the natural and organic packaged food sales industry or in the economy as a whole; •seasonal fluctuations; •actions by competitors; •actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors; •the public’s response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; •economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; 22Table of Contents•changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; •any future guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance or any difference between our guidance and actual results or analyst expectations for such guidance; •speculation by the press or investment community regarding our business; •litigation; •changes in key personnel; and •future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders. In addition, the stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of the investor community, one or more of the analysts who cover our company may change their recommendations regarding our company, and our stock price could decline. Certain provisions of our corporate governance documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These include provisions that: •authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include voting, approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of our common stock; •provide that directors can only be removed for cause or by vote of shares representing 66 2/3% or more of our total voting power; •prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent; •provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; •provide that the stockholders can only adopt, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws with the affirmative vote of 66 2/3% or more of our total voting power; •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings; and •provide our board of directors with the sole power to set the size of our board of directors and fill vacancies. These and other provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent us from experiencing a change of control or changes in our board of directors and management and may adversely affect our stockholders’ voting and other rights.In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with a stockholder owning 15% or more of such corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years following the date on which such stockholder became an “interested” stockholder. In order for us to consummate a business combination with an “interested” stockholder within three years of the date on which the stockholder became “interested,” either (1) the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming “interested” must be approved by our board of directors prior to the date the stockholder became “interested,” (2) the “interested” stockholder must own at least 85% of our outstanding voting stock at the time the transaction commences (excluding voting stock owned by directors who are also officers and certain employee stock plans) or 23Table of Contents(3) the business combination must be approved by our board of directors and authorized by at least two-thirds of our stockholders (excluding the “interested” stockholder). This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors and management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares of our common stock. 24Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.