ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this prospectus before making an investment decision. In addition to the risks described below, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial that may become material risks. Any of these risks could materially affect the Company’s businesses, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Lumera Corporation and GigOptix LLC have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and the Company may incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. Since Lumera’s inception, it has been engaged primarily in the research and development of polymer materials technologies and potential products. As a result, Lumera incurred net losses of $76.8 million from inception through December 31, 2007 and an additional net loss of $7.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008. During 2007, GigOptix LLC accelerated the marketing and commercialization of its product portfolio. Since its inception in July 1, 2007, GigOptix LLC and from 2000, its parent company, iTerra, have incurred net losses of $51.3 million through December 31, 2007 and an additional net loss of $3.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008. In addition, the Company expects development, sales and other operating expenses to increase in the future as it expands its business. If the Company’s revenue does not grow to offset these expected increased expenses, the Company may not be profitable. In fact, in future quarters, the Company may not have any revenue growth and its revenues could decline. Furthermore, if the Company’s operating expenses exceed its expectations, its financial performance will be adversely affected and the Company may continue to incur significant losses in the future. The Company will require additional capital to continue to fund its operations. If the Company does not obtain additional capital, it may be required to substantially limit operations. The Company does not expect to generate the cash needed to finance its anticipated operations for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Company may need to seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, and through other arrangements, including collaborations. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses, unanticipated drop in projected revenues, or unanticipated opportunities could require additional financing sooner than expected. Such financing may be unavailable when needed or may not be available on acceptable terms. If the Company raises additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of its current stockholders will be reduced, and these securities may have rights superior to those of Company the Company’s common stock. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, or if planned revenues are not generated, the Company may be required to limit its operations substantially. These limitations of operations may include a possible sale or shutdown of portions of the business, reductions in capital expenditures and reductions in staff and discretionary costs. We currently have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remedy our material weakness or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in rules established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, were identified. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness was attributable to the lack of effective controls over our financial reporting, the extensive use of manual procedures, and insufficient complement of qualified accounting staff, all of which resulted in the recording of many audit adjustments. We do not have an integrated financial reporting system and will not be in a position to put one in place until the second quarter at the earliest. 15 Table of Contents In addition, other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. If we fail to remediate the material weakness or fail to implement required new or improved controls, or encounter difficulties in their implementation, it could harm our operating results, cause failure to meet our SEC reporting obligations on a timely basis or result in material misstatements in our annual or interim financial statements. Our failure to fully remediate the material weakness that continued to exist as of December 31, 2008 or the identification of additional material weaknesses could also prohibit us from complying with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will apply to us with the filing of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2009 and which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as well as a report by our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the effectiveness of such internal control. If we are unable to comply with Section 404 or otherwise are unable to produce timely and accurate financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue from a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these key customers, the diminished demand for the Company’s products from a key customer, or the failure to obtain certifications from a key customer or its distribution channel could significantly reduce the Company’s revenue and profits. A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenue in any particular period. One or more of the Company’s key customers may discontinue operations as a result of consolidation, liquidation or otherwise, or reduce significantly its businesses with GigOptix due to the world economy slow down impact. Reductions, delays and cancellation of orders from the Company’s key customers or the loss of one or more key customers could significantly further reduce its revenue and profits. There is no assurance that the Company’s current customers will continue to place orders with the Company, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that it will be able to obtain orders from new customers. The Company’s quarter-to-quarter performance may vary substantially, and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause its stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose the Company to litigation. Due to uncertainty regarding revenues for all of the Company’s product lines, the Company’s quarterly operating results may vary significantly based on many factors, including: • reductions or delays in funding of development programs involving new polymer materials technologies by the U.S. government; • additions of new customers; • fluctuating demand for the Company’s potential products and technologies; • announcements or implementation by competitors of technological innovations or new products; • the status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements; • timing and amounts relating to the expansion of operations; • costs related to possible future acquisitions of technologies or businesses; • communications, information technology and semiconductor industry conditions; • fluctuations in the timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments; • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers, including as a result of slowing demand for the Company’s products or its customers’ products or over-ordering of the Company’s products or its customers’ products; • changes in the mix of products that its customers buy; 16 Table of Contents • competitive pressures on selling prices; • the ability of the Company’s customers to obtain components from their other suppliers; • fluctuations in manufacturing output, yields or other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of its products or its customers’ products; and • increases in the costs of products or discontinuance of products by suppliers. Current and future expense estimates for the Company are based, in large part, on estimates of future revenue, which is difficult to predict. The Company expects to continue to make significant operating and capital expenditures in the area of research and development and to invest in and expand production, sales, marketing and administrative systems and processes. The Company may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If the Company’s increased expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue in the same quarter, its quarterly operating results would be harmed. In one or more future quarters, the Company’s results of operations may fall below the expectations of investors and the trading price of its common stock may decline as a consequence. The Company believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its operating results will not be a good indication of future performance and should not be relied upon to predict the future performance of its stock price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been subject to securities class action litigation. The Company may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm its business. Dependence on third-party manufacturing and supply relationships increases the risk that the Company will not have an adequate supply of products to meet demand or that the cost of materials will be higher than expected. The company expects that it will depend upon third parties to manufacture, assemble or package its products. As a result, the Company will be subject to risks associated with these third parties, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; • inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs; • difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; • potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • limited warranties on products supplied to the Company; • potential increases in prices; • potential instability in countries where third-party manufacturers are located; and • potential misappropriation of its intellectual property. Outside foundries generally manufacture products on a purchase order basis, and the Company has very few long-term supply arrangements with these suppliers. The Company has less control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs than competitors with their own fabrication facilities. A manufacturing disruption experienced by one or more of the outside foundries or a disruption of the Company’s relationship with an outside foundry, including discontinuance of its products by that foundry, would negatively impact the production of certain of the Company’s products for a substantial period of time. 17 Table of Contents The Company’s future success depends in part on the continued service of its key senior management, design engineering, sales, marketing, and technical personnel and its ability to identify, hire and retain additional, qualified personnel. The Company’s future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of its senior management personnel, including its chief executive officer, Dr. Avi Katz and its Chief Technical Officer, Andrea Betti-Berutto. The Company does not maintain key person life insurance on any of its executive officers and does not intend to purchase any in the future. The loss of key senior executives could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor and polymer industries, and the Company may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of its business, or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave its employment in the future. There may be significant costs associated with recruiting, hiring and retention of personnel. Periods of contraction in the Company’s business may inhibit its ability to attract and retain its personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could be significantly detrimental to the Company’s product development or other aspects of its business. The Company may fail to realize the benefits of its merger with Lumera Corporation. The Company’s future success will depend in significant part on its ability to realize the cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities that it expects to result from the integration of the Lumera Corporation and GigOptix LLC businesses following the merger. The Company’s operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected if the Company is unable to integrate successfully the operations of its subsidiaries, fails to achieve or achieve on a timely basis such cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities, or incurs unforeseen costs and expenses or experiences unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration of GigOptix LLC and Lumera Corporation may involve, among other matters, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll, regulatory compliance, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible and therefore may need to be replaced. The Company has begun the process of integration but does not know whether this integration will be successful. The Company’s cost savings estimates are based upon assumptions by its management concerning a number of factors, including operating efficiencies, the consolidation of functions, and the integration of operations, systems, marketing methods and procedures. These assumptions are uncertain and are subject to significant business, economic and competitive conditions that are difficult to predict and often beyond the control of management. Integrating the GigOptix LLC and Lumera Corporation businesses may divert management’s attention away from operations. Successful integration of the operations, products and personnel of GigOptix LLC and Lumera Corporation will place a significant burden on the Company’s management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could otherwise harm the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. The integration will require efforts from each company, including the coordination of their general and administrative functions. For example, integration of administrative functions includes coordinating employee benefits, payroll, financial reporting, purchasing and disclosure functions. Delays in successfully integrating and managing employee benefits could lead to dissatisfaction and employee turnover. Problems in integrating purchasing and financial reporting could result in control issues, including unplanned costs. In addition, the combination of the GigOptix LLC and Lumera Corporation organizations may result in greater competition for resources and elimination of product development programs that might otherwise be successfully completed. 18 Table of Contents Provisions in the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Company’s amended and restated bylaws may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. Provisions of the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and provisions of the Company’s amended and restated bylaws could discourage a takeover of the Company even if a change of control of the Company would be beneficial to the interests of its stockholders. These charter provisions include the following: • a requirement that the Company’s board of directors be divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of the directors to be elected each year; and • supermajority voting requirements (two-thirds of outstanding shares) applicable to the approval of any merger or other change of control transaction that is not approved by the Company’s continuing directors. The continuing directors are all of the directors as of the effective time of the merger or who are elected to the board upon the recommendation of a majority of the continuing directors. The Company will be subject to the risks frequently experienced by early stage companies. The likelihood of the Company’s success must be considered in light of the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, especially those formed to develop and market new technologies. These risks include the Company’s potential inability to: • establish product sales and marketing capabilities; • establish and maintain markets for its potential products; • identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • continue to develop and upgrade the Company’s technologies to keep pace with changes in technology and the growth of markets using semiconductors and polymer materials; • develop expanded product production facilities and outside contractor relationships; • maintain its reputation and build trust with customers; • improve existing and implement new transaction-processing, operational and financial systems; • scale up from small pilot or prototype quantities to large quantities of product on a consistent basis; • contract for or develop the internal skills needed to master large volume production of its products; and • fund the capital expenditures required to develop volume production due to the limits of available financial resources. The Company’s future growth will suffer if it does not achieve sufficient market acceptance of its products. The Company’s success depends, in part, upon its ability to maintain and gain market acceptance of its products. To be accepted, these products must meet the quality, technical and performance requirements of the Company’s customers and potential customers. The optical communications industry is currently fragmented with many competitors developing different technologies. Some of these technologies may not gain market acceptance. The Company’s products, including products based on polymer materials, may not be accepted by OEMs and systems integrators of optical communications networks and consumer electronics. In addition, even if the Company achieves some degree of market acceptance for its potential products in one industry, the Company may not achieve market acceptance in other industries for which it is developing products. Many of the Company’s current products, more so those based on polymer technology, are either in the development stage or are being tested by potential customers. The Company cannot be assured that its development efforts or customer tests will be successful or that they will result in actual material sales. 19 Table of Contents Achieving market acceptance for the Company’s products will require marketing efforts and the expenditure of financial and other resources to create product awareness and demand by customers. It will also require the ability to provide excellent customer service. The Company may be unable to offer products that compete effectively due to GigOptix’ limited resources and operating history. Also, certain large corporations may be predisposed against doing business with a company of its limited size and operating history. Failure to achieve broad acceptance of the Company’s products by customers and to compete effectively would harm its operating results. Successful commercialization of current and future products will require the Company to maintain a high level of technical expertise. Technology in the Company’s target markets is undergoing rapid change. To succeed in its target markets, the Company will have to establish and maintain a leadership position in the technology supporting those markets. Accordingly, the Company’s success will depend on its ability to: • accurately predict the needs of target customers and develop, in a timely manner, the technology required to support those needs; • provide products that are not only technologically sophisticated but are also available at a price acceptable to customers and competitive with comparable products; • establish and effectively defend its intellectual property; and • enter into relationships with other companies that have developed complementary technology into which the Company’s products may be integrated. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to achieve any of these objectives. Many of the Company’s products will have long sales cycles, which may cause the Company to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and which makes it difficult to plan its expenses and forecast its revenues. Many of the Company’s products will have long sales cycles that involve numerous steps, including initial customer contacts, specification writing, engineering design, prototype fabrication, pilot testing, regulatory approvals (if needed), sales and marketing and commercial manufacture. During this time, the Company may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort without any assurance that product sales will result. The anticipated long sales cycle for some of the Company’s products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. Delays in sales may cause the Company to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and make it difficult to plan expenses and forecast revenues. The Company relies on a small number of development contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and government contractors for a large portion of its revenue. The termination or non-renewal of one or more of these contracts could reduce the future revenue of the Company. Prior to the merger, over 95% of Lumera Corporation’s annual revenue from continuing operations was derived from performance on a limited number of development contracts with various agencies within the U.S. government. Any failure by the Company to continue these relationships or significant disruption or deterioration of its relationship with the Department of Defense may reduce revenues. Government programs must compete with programs managed by other contractors for limited amounts and uncertain levels of funding. The total amount and levels of funding are susceptible to significant fluctuations on a year-to-year basis. The Company’s competitors frequently engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the government and are likely to continue these efforts in the future. In addition, the Company’s development contracts with government agencies are subject to potential profit and cost limitations and standard provisions that allow the U.S. government to terminate such contracts at any time at its convenience. Termination of these development 20 Table of Contents contracts, a shift in government spending to other programs in which the Company is not involved, or a reduction in government spending generally or defense spending specifically could severely harm the Company’s business. The Company intends to continue to compete for government contracts and expects such contracts will be a large percentage of its revenue for the foreseeable future. The development contracts in place with various agencies within the U.S. Department of Defense require ongoing compliance with applicable federal procurement regulations. Violations of these regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, compensatory and punitive damages, restitution and forfeitures, as well as suspensions or prohibitions from entering into such development contracts. Also, the reporting and appropriateness of costs and expenses under these development contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an agency of the U.S. Department of Defense. Any failure to comply with applicable government regulations could jeopardize the Company’s development contracts and otherwise harm its business. Most of the Company’s products are directed at the telecommunications and networking markets, which continue to be subject to overcapacity. The technology equipment industry is cyclical and has experienced significant and extended downturns in the past, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles, capital spending cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The cyclical nature of these markets has led to significant imbalances in demand, inventory levels and production capacity. It has also accelerated the decrease of average selling prices per unit. The Company may experience periodic fluctuations in its financial results because of these or other industry-wide conditions, as it intends over the next several years to derive its revenues from sales to the telecommunications and networking markets. Developments that adversely affect the telecommunications or networking markets, including delays in traffic growth and changes in U.S. government regulation, could halt the Company’s efforts to generate revenue or cause revenue growth to be slower than anticipated from sales of electro-optic modulators, semi-conductors and related products. Reduced spending and technology investment by telecommunications companies may make it more difficult for the Company’s products to gain market acceptance. Such companies may be less willing to purchase new technology such as the Company’s technology or invest in new technology development when they have reduced capital expenditure budgets. The failure to compete successfully could harm the Company’s business. The Company will face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in its target markets. The telecom, datacom and consumer opto-electronics markets are highly competitive and the Company expects that domestic and international competition will increase in these markets, due in part to deregulation, rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues or lower profit margins. Many of the Company’s competitors and potential competitors have or may have substantially greater research and product development capabilities, financial, scientific, marketing, manufacturing and human resources, name recognition and experience than the Company. As a result, these competitors may: • succeed in developing products that are equal to or superior to the Company’s products or that will achieve greater market acceptance than its products; • devote greater resources to developing, marketing or selling their products; • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or scientific advances and changes in customer requirements, which could render the Company’s technologies or potential products obsolete; • introduce products that make the continued development of the Company’s potential products uneconomical; • obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize its potential products; 21 Table of Contents • withstand price competition more successfully than the Company can; • establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of prospective customers better than the Company can; and • take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily than the Company can. Competitors may offer enhancements to existing products, or offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements, that are available to customers on a more timely basis than comparable products from the Company or that have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to its products. The introduction of enhancements or new products by competitors could render the Company’s existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s strategy of growth through acquisition could harm its business. It is the Company’s intent to continue to grow through strategic acquisitions. Successful integration of newly acquired target companies may place a significant burden on the Company’s management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration processes could harm the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the Company may be unable to execute its acquisition strategy, resulting in wasted resources and a failure to achieve anticipated growth. The Company may be unable to obtain effective intellectual property protection for its potential products and technology. Any intellectual property that the Company has or may acquire, license or develop in the future, may not provide meaningful competitive advantages. The Company’s patents and patent applications, including those it licenses, may be challenged by competitors, and the rights granted under such patents or patent applications may not provide meaningful proprietary protection. For example, there are patents held by third parties that relate to polymer materials and electro-optic devices. These patents could be used as a basis to challenge the validity or limit the scope of the Company’s patents or patent applications. A successful challenge to the validity or limitation of the scope of its patents or patent applications could limit the Company’s ability to commercialize the technology and, consequently, reduce revenues. Moreover, competitors may infringe the Company’s patents or those that it licenses, or successfully avoid these patents through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use, the Company may need to resort to litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming and may not succeed in protecting its proprietary rights. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that the Company’s patents or other intellectual property rights are not valid or are unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the intellectual property at issue on the ground that it is non-infringing. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and the Company may not be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of its proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect these rights as fully as the laws of the United States. The Company also relies on the law of trade secrets to protect unpatented technology and know-how. The Company tries to protect this technology and know-how by limiting access to those employees, contractors and strategic partners with a need to know this information and by entering into confidentiality agreements with these parties. Any of these parties could breach the agreements and disclose the Company’s trade secrets or confidential information to competitors, or such competitors might learn of the information in other ways. Disclosure of any trade secret not protected by a patent could materially harm the Company’s business. 22 Table of Contents The Company may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent it from commercializing potential products. Third parties may claim that the Company’s potential products or related technologies infringe their patents. Any patent infringement claims brought against the Company may cause it to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted, require the Company to pay substantial damages. In addition, as a result of a patent infringement suit, the Company may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants the Company rights to use its intellectual property. The Company may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to it, if at all. Even if the Company is able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, the Company may be unable to commercialize its potential products or may have to cease some of its business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm its business. If the Company’s potential products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the Company may be required to indemnify customers for any damages they suffer. Third parties may assert infringement claims against the Company’s current or potential customers. These claims may require the Company to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, the Company may be forced to pay damages on behalf of these customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If the Company cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, it may be unable to continue selling such products. The technology that the Company licenses from various third parties may be subject to government rights and retained rights of the originating research institution. The Company licenses technology from various companies or research institutions, such as the University of Washington. Many of these partners and licensors have obligations to government agencies or universities. Under their agreements, a government agency or university may obtain certain rights over the technology that the Company has developed and licensed, including the right to require that a compulsory license be granted to one or more third parties selected by the government agency. In addition, the Company’s partners often retain certain rights under their licensing agreements, including the right to use the technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. It is difficult to monitor whether such partners limit their use of the technology to these uses, and the Company could incur substantial expenses to enforce its rights to its licensed technology in the event of misuse. If the Company fails to develop and maintain the quality of its manufacturing processes, its operating results would be harmed. The manufacture of the Company’s products is a multi-stage process that requires the use of high-quality materials and advanced manufacturing technologies. With respect to its polymer-based products, polymer-related device development and manufacturing must occur in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. In spite of stringent quality controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of a product in a lot to be defective. If the Company is not able to develop and continue to improve on its manufacturing processes or to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, the Company’s operating results would be harmed. 23 Table of Contents The complexity of the Company’s products may lead to errors, defects and bugs, which could result in the necessity to redesign products and could negatively impact the Company’s reputation with customers. Products as complex as the Company’s products may contain errors, defects and bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. Delivery of products with production defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems could significantly delay or hinder market acceptance of the products or result in a costly recall and could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers. In particular, certain of the Company’s products are customized or designed for integration into specific network systems. If, after the Company has incurred significant expenses in designing such products, the products experience defects or bugs, the Company may need to undertake a redesign of the product, a process which may result in significant additional expenses. The Company may also be required to make significant expenditures of capital and resources to resolve such problems. There is no assurance that problems will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial production, despite testing by the Company, its suppliers or its customers. The Company could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time-consuming and costly and impair its ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. The Company may be subject to product liability claims if any of its potential products are alleged to be defective or harmful. Product liability claims or other claims related to its potential products, regardless of their outcome, could require the Company to spend significant time and money in litigation, divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns, require it to pay significant damages, harm its reputation or hinder acceptance of its potential products. Any successful product liability claim may prevent the Company from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. Any inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could impair the Company’s ability to commercialize its products. In addition, certain of the Company’s products are sold under warranties. The failure of the Company’s products to meet the standards set forth in such warranties could result in significant expenses to the Company. If the Company fails to effectively manage its growth, its business could suffer. Failure to manage growth of its operations could harm the Company’s business. To date, a large number of the Company’s activities and resources have been directed at the research and development of its technologies and development of potential related products. The transition from research and development to a vendor of products requires effective planning and management. Additionally, growth arising from the expected synergies from the merger with Lumera Corporation will require effective planning and management. Future expansion will be expensive and will likely strain management and other resources. In order to effectively manage growth, the Company must: • continue to develop an effective planning and management process to implement its business strategy; • hire, train and integrate new personnel in all areas of its business; and • expand its facilities and increase capital investments. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to accomplish these tasks effectively or otherwise effectively manage its growth. The Company is subject to regulatory compliance related to its operations. The Company is subject to various U.S. governmental regulations related to occupational safety and health, labor and business practices. Failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alterations of its production processes, cessation of operations, or other actions, which could harm its business. 24 Table of Contents The Company may be unable to export some of its potential products or technology to other countries, convey information about its technology to citizens of other countries or sell certain products commercially, if the products or technology are subject to United States export or other regulations. The Company is developing certain products that the Company believes the United States government and other governments may be interested in using for military and information gathering or antiterrorism activities. United States government export regulations may restrict the Company from selling or exporting these potential products into other countries, exporting its technology to those countries, conveying information about its technology to citizens of other countries or selling these potential products to commercial customers. The Company may be unable to obtain export licenses for products or technology if necessary. The Company currently cannot assess whether national security concerns would affect its potential products and, if so, what procedures and policies it would have to adopt to comply with applicable existing or future regulations. The Company may incur liability arising from its use of hazardous materials. The Company’s business and its facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, handling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain toxic or hazardous materials and waste products that are used or generated in its operations. Many of these environmental laws and regulations subject current or previous owners or occupiers of land to liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. In addition, these laws and regulations typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or occupier knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials and regardless of whether the actions that led to the presence were taken in compliance with the law. The Company’s domestic facilities use various chemicals in manufacturing processes which may be toxic and covered by various environmental controls. These hazardous materials may be stored on site. The waste created by use of these materials is transported off-site by an unaffiliated waste hauler. Many environmental laws and regulations require generators of waste to take remedial actions at an off-site disposal location even if the disposal was conducted lawfully. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. Failure to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of production processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could severely harm the Company’s business. The Company’s business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed if it does not achieve anticipated revenues. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from outside contract manufacturers, suppliers and foundries, the Company may need to order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors render the Company’s products less marketable. If the Company is forced to hold excess inventory or incurs unanticipated inventory write-downs, its financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. The Company’s expense levels are relatively fixed and are based on its expectations of future revenues. The Company will have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Changes to production volumes and impact of overhead absorption may result in a decline in its financial condition or liquidity. The industry and markets in which the Company competes are subject to consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand. There has been industry consolidation among communications IC companies, network equipment companies and telecommunications companies in the past. This consolidation is expected to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their positions in evolving markets. Consolidation may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents The Company’s operating results are subject to fluctuations because it has international sales. International sales account for a large portion of the Company’s revenues and may account for an increasing portion of future revenues. The revenues derived from international sales may be subject to certain risks, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • political and economic instability; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in managing distributors; • difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for communications and other products; • reduced or uncertain protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. The Company is subject to risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. The Company cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of its products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Because sales of the Company’s products have been denominated to date primarily in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of the Company’s products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to United States dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations. Some customer purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from laws in the United States. As a result, the Company’s ability to enforce its rights under such agreements may be limited compared with its ability to enforce its rights under agreements governed by laws in the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received written comments from the commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 