ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision. In addition to the risks described below, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial that may become material risks. Any of these risks could materially affect the Company’s businesses, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. We and our predecessors have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. The Company has incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company incurred net losses of $10.0 million and $7.7 million respectively, and cash outflows from operations of $3.8 million and $6.7 million respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $69.0 million and $59.0 million, respectively. We expect development, sales and other operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our business. If our revenue does not grow to offset these expected increased expenses, we may not be profitable. In fact, in future quarters we may not have any revenue growth and our revenues could decline. Furthermore, if our operating expenses exceed expectations, financial performance will be adversely affected and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. In addition, we acquired ChipX in November 2009 which incurred net losses of $5.7 million and $7.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and an additional net loss of $3.3 million for the period from January 1, 2009 through the date of acquisition of November 9, 2009. We will require additional capital to continue to fund our operations. If we do not obtain additional capital, we may be required to substantially limit operations. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash needed to finance our anticipated operations for the foreseeable future from such operations. Accordingly, we will need to seek funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, and through other arrangements including collaborations. We could require additional financing sooner than expected if we have poor financial results, including unanticipated expenses, or an unanticipated drop in projected revenues. Such financing may be unavailable when needed or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, and these securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, or if planned revenues are not generated, we may be required to limit our operations substantially. These limitations of operations may include a possible sale or shutdown of portions of the business, reductions in capital expenditures and reductions in staff and discretionary costs. There may be a limited public market for our common shares, and the ability of our stockholders to dispose of their common shares may be limited. Our common shares have been traded on the OTC Bulletin Board since December 2008. We cannot foresee the degree of liquidity that will be associated with our common shares. A holder of our common shares may not be able to liquidate his, her or its investment in a short time period or at the market prices that currently exist at the time the holder decides to sell. The market price for our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and such volatility may bear no relation to our performance. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. As of March 24, 2010, we had approximately 9,324,589 shares of common stock outstanding, approximately 1,500,900 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our stock option plans and 20 Table of Contents warrants to purchase approximately 2,012,038 shares outstanding. Additional sales of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future in private placements, public offerings or to finance mergers or acquisitions. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our recent mergers with ChipX and Lumera. Our future success will depend in significant part on our ability to realize the cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities that are expected to result from the integration of the GigOptix, Lumera and ChipX businesses. Our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected if we are unable to integrate successfully the operations of GigOptix, Lumera and ChipX, fail to achieve or achieve on a timely basis such cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities, or incur unforeseen costs and expenses or experience unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration of GigOptix, Lumera and ChipX may involve, among other matters, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll, regulatory compliance, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible and therefore may need to be replaced. Any estimates of cost savings are based upon our assumptions concerning a number of factors, including operating efficiencies, the consolidation of functions, and the integration of operations, systems, marketing methods and procedures. These assumptions are uncertain and are subject to significant business, economic and competitive conditions that are difficult to predict and often beyond our control. Integrating the GigOptix and ChipX businesses may divert management’s attention away from our operations. Successful integration of the operations, products and personnel of GigOptix and ChipX may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The integration will require efforts from each company, including the coordination of general and administrative functions. For example, integration of administrative functions includes coordinating employee benefits, payroll, financial reporting, purchasing and disclosure functions. Delays in successfully integrating and managing employee benefits could lead to dissatisfaction and employee turnover. Problems in integrating purchasing and financial reporting could result in control issues, including unplanned costs. In addition, the combination of the GigOptix and ChipX organizations may result in greater competition for resources and elimination of product development programs that might otherwise be successfully completed. Our strategy of growth through acquisition could harm our business. It is our intent to continue to grow through strategic acquisitions. Successful integration of newly acquired target companies may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration processes could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may be unable to execute our acquisition strategy, resulting in under-utilized resources and a failure to achieve anticipated growth. Restrictive covenants under our credit facilities with Bridge Bank and Agility Capital may adversely affect our operations. Our credit agreement with Bridge Bank, N.A. (Bridge Bank) contains a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our ability to, without prior written approval from Bridge Bank: • Merge or consolidate, or permit any of our subsidiaries to merge or consolidate, with or into any other business organization, or acquire, or permit any of our subsidiaries to acquire, all or substantially all of the capital stock or property of another person; 21 Table of Contents • Create, incur, or assume any indebtedness, other than certain indebtedness permitted under the credit agreement with Bridge Bank; and • Make dividends or distributions or repurchase capital stock in excess of $0.5 million per fiscal year. Our loan agreement with Agility Capital, LLC (Agility Capital) contains similar restrictive covenants. In addition, at any time that loans under the Bridge Bank credit agreement are outstanding, we are required to maintain an “Asset Coverage Ratio” of (a) cash maintained at Bridge Bank plus 80% of our accounts receivable under 90 days from invoice date to (b) indebtedness owed to Bridge Bank of not less than 1.75 to 1.00, measured as of the end of each month. Further, we must maintain certain levels of maximum loss and minimum net income based on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, in the quarter ending December 31, 2009, we must not incur a GAAP net loss greater than $4.6 million. For the quarter ending March 31, 2010, we must not incur a GAAP net loss greater than $0.75 million and for all quarters thereafter, we must maintain positive GAAP net income. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009 we incurred a GAAP net loss in excess of $4.6 million which violated the maximum GAAP net loss covenant in the agreement. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit facility could result in an event of default under the facilities or the existing agreements which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remedy our material weakness or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in rules established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, were identified. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness was attributed to us not maintaining a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. While we have adopted a remediation plan, we are only in the initial stage of executing this plan and we do not believe that the material weakness has been remediated as of December 31, 2009. In addition, other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. If we fail to remediate the material weakness or fail to implement required new or improved controls, or encounter difficulties in their implementation, it could harm our operating results, cause failure to meet our SEC reporting obligations on a timely basis or result in material misstatements in our annual or interim financial statements. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these key customers, the diminished demand for our products from a key customer, or the failure to obtain certifications from a key customer or its distribution channel could significantly reduce our revenue and profits. A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue in any particular period. For instance, Alcatel and contracts with the U.S. Government accounted for 23% and 24%, respectively, 22 Table of Contents of revenue for fiscal year 2009. One or more of our key customers may discontinue operations as a result of consolidation, liquidation or otherwise, or reduce significantly its business with us due to the current economic conditions. Reductions, delays and cancellation of orders from our key customers or the loss of one or more key customers could significantly further reduce our revenue and profits. There is no assurance that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We rely on a small number of development contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and government contractors for a large portion of our revenue. The termination or non-renewal of one or more of these contracts could reduce our future revenue. 24% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 was derived from performance on a limited number of development contracts with various agencies within the U.S. government. Any failure by us to continue these relationships or significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the Department of Defense may reduce revenues. Government programs must compete with programs managed by other contractors for limited and uncertain levels of funding. The total amount and levels of funding are susceptible to significant fluctuations on a year-to-year basis. Our competitors frequently engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the government and are likely to continue these efforts in the future. In addition, our development contracts with government agencies are subject to potential profit and cost limitations and standard provisions that allow the U.S. government to terminate such contracts at any time at its convenience. Termination of these development contracts, a shift in government spending to other programs in which we are not involved, or a reduction in government spending generally or defense spending specifically could severely harm our business. We intend to continue to compete for government contracts and expect such contracts will be a large percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. The development contracts in place with various agencies within the U.S. Department of Defense require ongoing compliance with applicable federal procurement regulations. Violations of these regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, compensatory and punitive damages, restitution and forfeitures, as well as suspensions or prohibitions from entering into such development contracts. Also, the reporting and appropriateness of costs and expenses under these development contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Defense. In addition, we obtain provisional billing rates from the DCAA to bill under government contracts. Any differences between provisional billing rates and actual billed rates may result in an adjustment to revenue. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we reduced revenue by $1.3 million as a result of such an adjustment applied to government contract revenue for all of fiscal 2009. Any failure to comply with applicable government regulations could jeopardize our development contracts and otherwise harm our business. Our quarter-to-quarter performance may vary substantially, and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. The revenues for our product lines and our quarterly operating results may vary significantly based on many factors, including: • reductions or delays in funding of development programs involving new polymer materials technologies by the U.S. government; • additions of new customers; • fluctuating demand for our products and technologies; • announcements or implementation by competitors of technological innovations or new products; • the status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements; • timing and amounts relating to the expansion of operations; 23 Table of Contents • costs related to possible future acquisitions of technologies or businesses; • communications, information technology and semiconductor industry conditions; • fluctuations in the timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments; • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers, including as a result of slowing demand for our products or our customers’ products; • changes in the mix of products that our customers buy; • competitive pressures on selling prices; • the ability of our customers to obtain components from their other suppliers; • fluctuations in manufacturing output, yields or other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products or our customers’ products; and • increases in the costs of products or discontinuance of products by suppliers. We base our current and future expense estimates, in large part, on estimates of future revenue, which are difficult to predict. We expect to continue to make significant operating and capital expenditures in the area of research and development and to invest in and expand production, sales, marketing and administrative systems and processes. We may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If our increased expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue in the same quarter, our quarterly operating results would be harmed. In future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of investors and the trading price of our common stock may decline as a consequence. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results will not be a good indication of future performance and should not be relied upon to predict the future performance of our stock price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Dependence on third-party manufacturing and supply relationships increases the risk that we will not have an adequate supply of products to meet demand or that the cost of materials will be higher than expected. We depend upon third parties to manufacture, assemble and package our products. As a result, we will be subject to risks associated with these third parties, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; • inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs; • difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; • potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • limited warranties on products supplied to our company; • potential lack of control over the timely resolution of product quality issues which may impact our ability to ship product; • potential increases in prices; • potential instability in countries where third-party manufacturers are located; and • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. 24 Table of Contents Outside foundries generally manufacture products on a purchase order basis, and we have very few long-term supply arrangements with these suppliers. We have less control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs than competitors with their own fabrication facilities. A manufacturing disruption experienced by one or more of the outside foundries or a disruption of our relationship with an outside foundry, including discontinuance of our products by that foundry, would negatively impact the production of certain of our products for a substantial period of time. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key senior management, design engineering, sales, marketing, and technical personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional, qualified personnel. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Avi Katz and our Chief Technical Officer, Andrea Betti-Berutto. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and do not intend to purchase any in the future. The loss of key senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor and polymer industries, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business, or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave our employment in the future. There may be significant costs associated with recruiting, hiring and retaining personnel. Periods of contraction in our business may inhibit our ability to attract and retain our personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could be significantly detrimental to our product development or other aspects of our business. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover of our company even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These charter provisions include the following: • a requirement that our board of directors be divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of the directors to be elected each year; and • supermajority voting requirements (two-thirds of outstanding shares) applicable to the approval of any merger or other change of control transaction that is not approved by our continuing directors. The continuing directors are all of the directors as of the effective time of a merger or who are elected to the board upon the recommendation of a majority of the continuing directors. We will be subject to the risks frequently experienced by early stage companies. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, especially those formed to develop and market new technologies. These risks include our potential inability to: • establish product sales and marketing capabilities; • establish and maintain markets for our potential products; • identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • continue to develop and upgrade our technologies to keep pace with changes in technology and the growth of markets using semiconductors and polymer materials; • develop expanded product production facilities and outside contractor relationships; • maintain our reputation and build trust with customers; 25 Table of Contents • improve existing and implement new transaction-processing, operational and financial systems; • scale up from small pilot or prototype quantities to large quantities of product on a consistent basis; • contract for or develop the internal skills needed to master large volume production of our products; and • fund the capital expenditures required to develop volume production due to the limits of available financial resources. Our future growth will suffer if we do not achieve sufficient market acceptance of our products. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain and gain market acceptance of our products. To be accepted, these products must meet the quality, technical performance and price requirements of our customers and potential customers. The optical communications industry is currently fragmented with many competitors developing different technologies. Some of these technologies may not gain market acceptance. Our products, including products based on polymer materials, may not be accepted by OEMs and systems integrators of optical communications networks and consumer electronics. In addition, even if we achieve some degree of market acceptance for our potential products in one industry, we may not achieve market acceptance in other industries for which we are developing products, and which are critical to meeting our financial targets. Many of our current products, particularly those based on polymer technology, are either in the development stage or are being tested by potential customers. We cannot be assured that our development efforts or customer tests will be successful or that they will result in actual material sales or that such products will be commercially viable. Achieving market acceptance for our products will require marketing efforts and the expenditure of financial and other resources to create product awareness and demand by customers. It will also require the ability to provide excellent customer service. We may be unable to offer products that compete effectively due to our limited resources and operating history. Also, certain large corporations may be predisposed against doing business with a company of our limited size and operating history. Failure to achieve broad acceptance of our products by customers and to compete effectively would harm our operating results. Successful commercialization of current and future products will require us to maintain a high level of technical expertise. Technology in our target markets is undergoing rapid change. To succeed in these target markets, we will have to establish and maintain a leadership position in the technology supporting those markets. Accordingly, our success will depend on our ability to: • accurately predict the needs of target customers and develop, in a timely manner, the technology required to support those needs; • provide products that are not only technologically sophisticated but are also available at a price acceptable to customers and competitive with comparable products; • establish and effectively defend our intellectual property; and • enter into relationships with other companies that have developed complementary technology into which our products may be integrated. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve any of these objectives. 26 Table of Contents Many of our products will have long sales cycles, which may cause us to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and which makes it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our revenues. Many of our products will have long sales cycles that involve numerous steps, including initial customer contacts, specification writing, engineering design, prototype fabrication, pilot testing, regulatory approvals (if needed), sales and marketing and commercial manufacture. During this time, we may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort without any assurance that product sales will result. The anticipated long sales cycle for some of our products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. Delays in sales may cause us to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and make it difficult to plan expenses and forecast revenues. A large proportion of our products are directed at the telecommunications and networking markets, which continue to be subject to overcapacity. The technology equipment industry is cyclical and has experienced significant and extended downturns in the past, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles, and capital spending cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The cyclical nature of these markets has led to significant imbalances in demand, inventory levels and production capacity. It has also accelerated the decrease of average selling prices per unit. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our financial results because of these or other industry-wide conditions. Developments that adversely affect the telecommunications or networking markets, including delays in traffic growth and changes in U.S. government regulation, could halt our efforts to generate revenue or cause revenue growth to be slower than anticipated from sales of electro-optic modulators, semiconductors and related products. Reduced spending and technology investment by telecommunications companies may make it more difficult for our products to gain market acceptance. Our potential customers may be less willing to purchase new technology such as our technology or invest in new technology development when they have reduced capital expenditure budgets. The failure to compete successfully could harm our business. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in our target markets. The telecom, datacom and consumer opto-electronics markets are highly competitive and we expect that domestic and international competition will increase in these markets, due in part to deregulation, rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues or lower profit margins. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have or may have substantially greater research and product development capabilities, financial, scientific, marketing, and manufacturing and human resources, name recognition and experience than we do. As a result, these competitors may: • succeed in developing products that are equal to or superior to our products or that will achieve greater market acceptance than our products; • devote greater resources to developing, marketing or selling their products; • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or scientific advances and changes in customer requirements, which could render our technologies or potential products obsolete; • introduce products that make the continued development of our potential products uneconomical; • obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit our ability to develop and commercialize potential products; • withstand price competition more successfully than us; • establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of prospective customers better than us; and • take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily than us. 27 Table of Contents Competitors may offer enhancements to existing products, or offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements that are available to customers on a more timely basis than comparable products from our company or that have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our products. The introduction of enhancements or new products by competitors could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain effective intellectual property protection for our potential products and technology. Any intellectual property that we have or may acquire, license or develop in the future may not provide meaningful competitive advantages. Our patents and patent applications, including those we license, may be challenged by competitors, and the rights granted under such patents or patent applications may not provide meaningful proprietary protection. For example, there are patents held by third parties that relate to polymer materials and electro-optic devices. These patents could be used as a basis to challenge the validity or limit the scope of our patents or patent applications. A successful challenge to the validity or limitation of the scope of our patents or patent applications could limit our ability to commercialize the technology and, consequently, reduce revenues. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or those that we license, or successfully avoid these patents through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to resort to litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming and may not succeed in protecting our proprietary rights. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that our patents or other intellectual property rights are not valid or are unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the intellectual property at issue on the ground that it is non-infringing. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect these rights as fully as the laws of the United States. We also rely on the law of trade secrets to protect unpatented technology and know-how. We try to protect this technology and know-how by limiting access to those employees, contractors and strategic partners with a need to know this information and by entering into confidentiality agreements with these parties. Any of these parties could breach the agreements and disclose our trade secrets or confidential information to competitors, or such competitors might learn of the information in other ways. Disclosure of any trade secret not protected by a patent could materially harm our business. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing potential products. Third parties may claim that our potential products or related technologies infringe their patents. Any patent infringement claims brought against us may cause us to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted, require us to pay substantial damages. In addition, as a result of a patent infringement suit, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. If our potential products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify customers for any damages they suffer. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our current or 28 Table of Contents potential customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of these customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. The technology that we license from various third parties may be subject to government rights and retained rights of the originating research institution. We license technology from various companies or research institutions, such as the University of Washington. Many of these partners and licensors have obligations to government agencies or universities. Under their agreements, a government agency or university may obtain certain rights over the technology that we have developed and licensed, including the right to require that a compulsory license be granted to one or more third parties selected by the government agency. In addition, our partners often retain certain rights under their licensing agreements, including the right to use the technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. It is difficult to monitor whether such partners limit their use of the technology to these uses, and we could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights to this licensed technology in the event of misuse. If we fail to develop and maintain the quality of our manufacturing processes, our operating results would be harmed. The manufacture of our products is a multi-stage process that requires the use of high-quality materials and advanced manufacturing technologies. With respect to our polymer-based products, polymer-related device development and manufacturing must occur in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. In spite of stringent quality controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of a product in a lot to be defective. If we are unable to develop and continue to improve on our manufacturing processes or to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, our operating results would be harmed. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs, which could result in the necessity to redesign products and could negatively impact our reputation with customers. Products as complex as ours may contain errors, defects and bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. Delivery of products with production defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems could significantly delay or hinder market acceptance of the products or result in a costly recall and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers. In particular, certain products are customized or designed for integration into specific network systems. If our products experience defects, we may need to undertake a redesign of the product, a process which may result in significant additional expenses. We may also be required to make significant expenditures of capital and resources to resolve such problems. There is no assurance that problems will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial production, despite testing by us, our suppliers and our customers. 29 Table of Contents We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time-consuming and costly and impair our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. We may be subject to product liability claims if any of our products are alleged to be defective or harmful. Product liability claims or other claims related to our potential products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns, require us to pay significant damages, harm our reputation or hinder acceptance of our products. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. Any inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could impair our ability to commercialize our products. In addition, certain of our products are sold under warranties. The failure of our products to meet the standards set forth in such warranties could result in significant expenses to us. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, and effectively transition from our focus on research and development activities to commercially successful products, our business could suffer. Failure to manage growth of operations could harm our business. To date, a large number of our activities and resources have been directed at the research and development of our technologies and development of potential related products. The transition from a focus on research and development to being a vendor of products requires effective planning and management. Additionally, growth arising from the expected synergies from the acquisition of ChipX will require effective planning and management. Future expansion will be expensive and will likely strain management and other resources. In order to effectively manage growth, we must: • continue to develop an effective planning and management process to implement our business strategy; • hire, train and integrate new personnel in all areas of our business; and • expand our facilities and increase capital investments. There is no assurance that we will be able to accomplish these tasks effectively or otherwise effectively manage our growth. We are subject to regulatory compliance related to our operations. We are subject to various U.S. governmental regulations related to occupational safety and health, labor and business practices. Failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alterations of our production processes, cessation of operations, or other actions, which could harm our business. We may be unable to export some of our potential products or technology to other countries, convey information about our technology to citizens of other countries or sell certain products commercially, if the products or technology are subject to United States export or other regulations. We are developing certain products that we believe the U.S. government and other governments may be interested in using for military and information gathering or antiterrorism activities. U.S. government export regulations may restrict us from selling or exporting these potential products into other countries, exporting our technology to those countries, conveying information about our technology to citizens of other countries or selling these potential products to commercial customers. We may be unable to obtain export licenses for products or technology if necessary. We currently cannot assess whether national security concerns would affect our potential products and, if so, what procedures and policies we would have to adopt to comply with applicable existing or future regulations. 30 Table of Contents We may incur liability arising from our use of hazardous materials. Our business and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, handling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain toxic or hazardous materials and waste products that are used or generated in our operations. Many of these environmental laws and regulations subject current or previous owners or occupiers of land to liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. In addition, these laws and regulations typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or occupier knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials and regardless of whether the actions that led to their presence were taken in compliance with the law. Our domestic facilities use various chemicals in manufacturing processes which may be toxic and covered by various environmental controls. These hazardous materials may be stored on site. The waste created by use of these materials is transported off-site by an unaffiliated waste hauler. Many environmental laws and regulations require generators of waste to take remedial actions at an off-site disposal location even if the disposal was conducted lawfully. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. Failure to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of production processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could severely harm our business. Our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed if we do not achieve anticipated revenue. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from outside contract manufacturers, suppliers and foundries, we may need to order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors render our products less marketable. If we are forced to hold excess inventory or incur unanticipated inventory write-downs, our financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based on our expectations of future revenue. We will have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Changes to production volumes and impact of overhead absorption may result in a decline in our financial condition or liquidity. We could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. Our operating cash flows are dependent on the continued collection of receivables. We could suffer losses if a customer is unable to pay. A significant loss on an accounts receivable would have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. The industry and markets in which we compete are subject to consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand. There has been industry consolidation among communications IC companies, network equipment companies and telecommunications companies in the past. This consolidation is expected to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their positions in evolving markets. Consolidation may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to fluctuations because we have international sales. International sales account for a large portion of our revenue and may account for an increasing portion of future revenue. The revenue derived from international sales may be subject to certain risks, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • political and economic instability; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in managing distributors; • difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for communications and other products; • reduced or uncertain protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. We are subject to risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Various laws and regulations potentially affect the import and export of our products, including export control, tax and customs laws. Furthermore, some customer purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from laws in the United States. As a result, our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements may be limited compared with our ability to enforce our rights under agreements governed by laws in the United States. Our business is subject to foreign currency risk. Sales to customers located outside of the U.S. comprised 75% and 51% of our revenue for 2008 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we have a subsidiary overseas (Switzerland) which records its operating expenses in a foreign currency. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date primarily in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to U. S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. We currently do not have hedging or other programs in place to protect against adverse changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to other currencies to minimize potential adverse effects. 32 Table of Contents We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. 