ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision. In addition to the risks described below, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that may become material risks. Any of these risks could materially affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. We and our predecessors have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net losses of $4.4 million and $10.0 million, respectively, and cash outflows from operations of $3.8 million and $4.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $73.4 million and $69.0 million, respectively. We expect development, sales and other operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our business. If our revenue does not grow to offset these expected increased expenses, we may not be profitable. In fact, in future quarters we may not have any revenue growth and our revenues could decline. Furthermore, if our operating expenses exceed expectations, financial performance will be adversely affected and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. In addition, we acquired ChipX in November 2009. ChipX incurred net losses of $5.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and an additional net loss of $3.3 million for the period from January 1, 2009 through the date of acquisition of November 9, 2009. We may require additional capital to continue to fund our operations. If we need but do not obtain additional capital, we may be required to substantially limit operations. We may not generate sufficient cash needed to finance our anticipated operations for the foreseeable future from such operations. Accordingly, we may seek funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, and through other arrangements including collaborations. We could require additional financing sooner than expected if we have poor financial results, including unanticipated expenses, or an unanticipated drop in projected revenues. Such financing may be unavailable when needed or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, and these securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, or if planned revenues are not generated, we may be required to limit our operations substantially. These limitations of operations may include a possible sale or shutdown of portions of our business, reductions in capital expenditures and reductions in staff and discretionary costs. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred net losses of $4.4 million and $10.0 million, respectively, and cash outflows from operations of $3.8 million and $4.1 million respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $73.4 million and $69.0 million, respectively. We have incurred significant losses since inception, attributable to our efforts to design and commercialize our products. We have managed our liquidity during this time through a series of cost reduction initiatives and through increasing our line of credit with our bank. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on many events outside of our direct control, including, among other things; obtaining additional financing either privately or through public markets and consumers’ purchasing our products in substantially higher volumes. During 2010, we raised approximately $3.9 million in additional equity capital from institutional investors which stabilized our cash position. We have used that cash to substantially reduce our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses balances. In addition, we have access to a line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank which enables us to borrow up to $3 million based on 80% of eligible invoiced amounts to customers. We also were close to breakeven, incurring a loss of $97,000, on 17 Table of Contents an operating income basis in the fourth quarter of 2010. Additionally, our pending merger with Endwave upon closing will provide us with additional cash and equivalents which should mitigate near-term liquidity issues. Based on these events and factors we believe that our cash, cash from operations, and our line of credit will be sufficient for at least the next 12 months. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our merger with ChipX. Our future success will depend in significant part on our ability to realize the cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities that are expected to result from the integration of the GigOptix and ChipX businesses. Our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected if we are unable to integrate successfully the operations of GigOptix and ChipX, fail to achieve or achieve on a timely basis such cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities, or incur unforeseen costs and expenses or experience unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration of GigOptix and ChipX may involve, among other matters, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, quality control, management, personnel, payroll, regulatory compliance, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible and therefore may need to be replaced. Any estimates of cost savings are based upon our assumptions concerning a number of factors, including operating efficiencies, the consolidation of functions, and the integration of operations, systems, marketing methods and procedures. These assumptions are uncertain and are subject to significant business, economic and competitive conditions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond our control. Our strategy of growth through acquisition could harm our business. It is our intent to continue to grow through strategic acquisitions. Successful integration of newly acquired target companies may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration processes could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may be unable to execute our acquisition strategy, resulting in under-utilized resources and a failure to achieve anticipated growth. We face intense competition and expect competition to increase in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue, revenue growth rate, if any, and market share. The global semiconductor market in general is highly competitive. We compete in different target markets to various degrees on the basis of a number of principal competitive factors, including our products’ performance, features and functionality, energy efficiency, size, ease of system design, customer support, products, reputation, reliability and price, as well as on the basis of our customer support, the quality of our product roadmap and our reputation. We expect competition to increase and intensify as more and larger semiconductor companies as well as the internal resources of large, integrated original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, enter our markets. Increased competition could result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, revenue growth rates and operating results. Our competitors range from large, international companies offering a wide range of semiconductor products to smaller companies specializing in narrow markets and internal engineering groups within device manufacturers, some of which may be our customers. Our primary competitors include Triquint, Vitesse, Oki, Inphi and Gennum. We expect competition in the markets in which we participate to increase in the future as existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings. In addition, we believe that a number of other public and private companies are in the process of developing competing products for digital television and other broadband communication applications. Because our products often are “building block” semiconductors that provide functions that in some cases can be integrated into more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, some of which may be existing customers that develop their own integrated circuit products. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. During past periods of downturns in our industry, competition in the markets in which we operate intensified as manufacturers of semiconductors reduced prices in order to combat production overcapacity and high inventory levels. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand similar adverse economic or market conditions in the future. Moreover, the competitive landscape is changing as a result of consolidation within our industry as some of our competitors have merged with or been acquired by other competitors, and other competitors have begun to collaborate with each other. These developments may materially and adversely affect our current and future target markets and our ability to compete successfully in those markets. If we fail to develop and introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired and our competitive position could be harmed. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability and meet the cost expectations of our customers. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products obsolete. Our failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to technological shifts could result in decreased revenue. In particular, we may experience difficulties with product design, manufacturing, marketing or certification that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new or enhanced products. If we fail to introduce new or enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, we will lose market share and our operating results will be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products, and the failure to manage our relationships with our third-party contractors successfully could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. We do not have our own manufacturing facilities. We operate an outsourced manufacturing business model that utilizes third-party foundry and assembly and test capabilities. As a result, we rely on third-party foundry wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity, including sole sourcing, for many components or products. Currently, our semiconductor devices are manufactured by foundries operated by IBM, Win, Triquint, UMC and SEI. We also use third-party contractors for all of our assembly and test operations, including Bourns, Spel, IMT and Sanmina SCI. Relying on third party manufacturing, assembly and testing presents significant risks to us, including the following: • failure by us, or our customers or their end customers to qualify a selected supplier; • capacity shortages during periods of high demand; • reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; • shortages of materials and potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • misappropriation of our intellectual property; • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; • potential increases in prices; • inadequate manufacturing yields and excessive costs; • difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; and • potential instability in countries where third-party manufacturers are located. 19 Table of Contents The ability and willingness of our third-party contractors to perform is largely outside our control. If one or more of our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, in the event that manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated at one or more facilities, including as a response to the recent worldwide decline in the semiconductor industry, manufacturing could be disrupted, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders and our net revenue could decline. In addition, if these third parties fail to deliver quality products and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, our net revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with our contract manufacturers or suppliers, and any disruption in our supply of products or materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and operating results. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party vendors. We make substantially all of our purchases on a purchase order basis, and our contract manufacturers are not required to supply us products for any specific period or in any specific quantity. We expect that it would take approximately nine to twelve months to transition performance of our foundry or assembly services to new providers. Such a transition would likely require a qualification process by our customers or their end customers. We generally place orders for products with some of our suppliers approximately four to five months prior to the anticipated delivery date, with order volumes based on our forecasts of demand from our customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain adequate and cost-effective foundry or assembly capacity from our third-party contractors to meet our customers’ delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. Our third-party contractors have not provided any assurance to us that adequate capacity will be available to us within the time required to meet additional demand for our products. Average selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and gross margins. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. From time to time, we have reduced the average unit price of our products in anticipation of competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and for other reasons. We expect that we will have to do so again in the future. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes or introducing new products with higher operating margins, our revenue and gross margins will suffer. To maintain our gross margins, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our and our customers’ costs. Failure to do so would cause our revenue and gross margins to decline. Due to our limited operating history, we may have difficulty accurately predicting our future revenue and appropriately budgeting our expenses. We were incorporated in 2008 and have only a limited operating history from which to predict future revenue. This limited operating experience, combined with the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products, substantial uncertainty concerning how these markets may develop and other factors beyond our control, reduces our ability to accurately forecast quarterly or annual revenue. We are currently expanding our staffing and increasing our expense levels in anticipation of future revenue growth. If our revenue does not increase as anticipated, we could incur significant losses due to our higher expense levels if we are not able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in future revenue. 20 Table of Contents Our customers require our products and our third-party contractors to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process which may delay and does not assure product sales. Prior to purchasing our products, our customers require that both our products and our third-party contractors undergo extensive qualification processes, which involve testing of the products in the customer’s system and rigorous reliability testing. This qualification process may continue for six months or more. However, qualification of a product by a customer does not assure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision to the product, changes in our customer’s manufacturing process or our selection of a new supplier may require a new qualification process, which may result in delays and in us holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take an additional six months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or devices that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, to qualifying our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, sales of this product to the customer may be precluded or delayed, which may impede our growth and cause our business to suffer. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and differences between our estimates of customer demand and product mix and our actual results could negatively affect our inventory levels, sales and operating results. Our revenue is generated on the basis of purchase orders with our customers rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, our customers can cancel purchase orders or defer the shipments of our products under certain circumstances. Our products are manufactured using a silicon foundry according to our estimates of customer demand, which requires us to make separate demand forecast assumptions for every customer, each of which may introduce significant variability into our aggregate estimate. We have limited visibility into future customer demand and the product mix that our customers will require, which could adversely affect our revenue forecasts and operating margins. Moreover, because our target markets are relatively new, many of our customers have difficulty accurately forecasting their product requirements and estimating the timing of their new product introductions, which ultimately affects their demand for our products. In addition, the rapid pace of innovation in our industry could render significant portions of our inventory obsolete. Excess or obsolete inventory levels could result in unexpected expenses or increases in our reserves that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we were to underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we could forego revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any significant future cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products due to manufacturing defects could materially and adversely impact our profit margins, increase our write-offs due to product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Winning business is subject to lengthy competitive selection processes that require us to incur significant expenditures. Even if we begin a product design, a customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to generate no revenue from a product and adversely affect our results of operations. The selection process for obtaining new business typically is lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures and dedicate scarce engineering resources in pursuit of a single customer opportunity. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. These risks are exacerbated by the fact that some of our customers’ products likely will have short life cycles. Failure to obtain business in a new product design could prevent us from offering an entire generation of a product, even though this has not occurred to date. This could cause us to lose revenue and require us to write off obsolete inventory, and could weaken our position in future competitive selection processes. After securing new business, we may experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of the lengthy development cycle typically required. Our customers generally take a considerable amount of time 21 Table of Contents to evaluate our products. The typical time from early engagement by our sales force to actual product introduction could run from 12 to 24 months. The delays inherent in these lengthy sales cycles increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel, curtail, reduce or delay its product plans, causing us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, any delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could materially and adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue. Finally, our customers’ failure to successfully market and sell their products could reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were unable to generate revenue after incurring substantial expenses to develop any of our products, our business would suffer. Many of our products will have long sales cycles, which may cause us to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and which makes it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our revenue. Many of our products will have long sales cycles that involve numerous steps, including initial customer contacts, specification writing, engineering design, prototype fabrication, pilot testing, regulatory approvals (if needed), sales and marketing and commercial manufacture. During this time, we may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort without any assurance that product sales will result. The anticipated long sales cycle for some of our products makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales may occur. Delays in sales may cause us to expend resources without an acceptable financial return and make it difficult to plan expenses and forecast revenues. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry is experiencing a significant downturn during the current global recession. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The current downturn and any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to third-party foundry and assembly capacity. We are dependent on the availability of this capacity to manufacture and assemble our products, and our third-party manufacturers have not provided assurances that adequate capacity will be available to us in the future. A large proportion of our products are directed at the telecommunications and data communications markets that continue to be subject to overcapacity. The technology equipment industry is cyclical and has experienced significant and extended downturns in the past, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles, and capital spending cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The cyclical nature of these markets has led to significant imbalances in demand, inventory levels and production capacity. It has also accelerated the decrease of average selling prices per unit. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our financial results because of these or other industry-wide conditions. Developments that adversely affect the telecommunications or data communications markets, including delays in traffic growth and changes in U.S. government regulation, could halt our efforts to generate revenue or cause revenue growth to be slower than anticipated from sales of electro-optic modulators, semiconductors and related products. Reduced spending and technology investment by telecommunications companies may make it more difficult for our products to gain market acceptance. Our potential customers may be less willing to purchase new technology such as our technology or invest in new technology development when they have reduced capital expenditure budgets. 22 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these key customers, the diminished demand for our products from a key customer, or the failure to obtain certifications from a key customer or its distribution channel could significantly reduce our revenue and profits. A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue in any particular period. For instance, Alcatel-Lucent and contracts with the U.S. government accounted for 11% and 14%, respectively, of our revenue for fiscal year 2010. One or more of our key customers may discontinue operations as a result of consolidation, liquidation or otherwise, or reduce significantly its business with us due to the current economic conditions. Reductions, delays and cancellation of orders from our key customers or the loss of one or more key customers could significantly further reduce our revenue and profits. There is no assurance that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. We rely on a small number of development contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and government contractors for a large portion of our revenue. The termination or non-renewal of one or more of these contracts could reduce our future revenue. Fourteen percent of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 was derived from performance on a limited number of development contracts with various agencies within the U.S. government. Any failure by us to continue these relationships or significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Department of Defense may reduce revenues. Government programs must compete with programs managed by other contractors for limited and uncertain levels of funding. The total amount and levels of funding are susceptible to significant fluctuations on a year-to-year basis. Our competitors frequently engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the government and are likely to continue these efforts in the future. In addition, our development contracts with government agencies are subject to potential profit and cost limitations and standard provisions that allow the U.S. government to terminate such contracts at any time at its convenience. Termination of these development contracts, a shift in government spending to other programs in which we are not involved, or a reduction in government spending generally or defense spending specifically could severely harm our business. We intend to continue to compete for government contracts and expect such contracts will be a large percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. The development contracts in place with various agencies within the U.S. Department of Defense require ongoing compliance with applicable federal procurement regulations. Violations of these regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, compensatory and punitive damages, restitution and forfeitures, as well as suspensions or prohibitions from entering into such development contracts. Also, the reporting and appropriateness of costs and expenses under these development contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Defense. In addition, we obtain provisional billing rates from the DCAA to bill under government contracts. Any differences between provisional billing rates and actual billed rates may result in an adjustment to revenue Any failure to comply with applicable government regulations could jeopardize our development contracts and otherwise harm our business. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our key senior management, design engineering, sales, marketing, and technical personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional, qualified personnel. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Avi Katz and our Chief Technical Officer, Andrea Betti-Berutto. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and do not intend to purchase any in the future. The loss of key senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor and polymer industries, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain engineers or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business, or to replace engineers or other qualified personnel who may leave our employment in the future. There may be significant costs associated with recruiting, hiring and retaining personnel. Periods of 23 Table of Contents contraction in our business may inhibit our ability to attract and retain our personnel. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key design engineers or other technical and management personnel could be significantly detrimental to our product development or other aspects of our business. We are subject to the risks frequently experienced by early stage companies. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, especially those formed to develop and market new technologies. These risks include our potential inability to: • establish product sales and marketing capabilities; • establish and maintain markets for our potential products; • identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • continue to develop and upgrade our technologies to keep pace with changes in technology and the growth of markets using semiconductors and polymer materials; • develop expanded product production facilities and outside contractor relationships; • maintain our reputation and build trust with customers; • improve existing and implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems; • scale up from small pilot or prototype quantities to large quantities of product on a consistent basis; • contract for or develop the internal skills needed to master large volume production of our products; and • fund the capital expenditures required to develop volume production due to the limits of available financial resources. Our future growth will suffer if we do not achieve sufficient market acceptance of our products. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain and gain market acceptance of our products. To be accepted, these products must meet the quality, technical performance and price requirements of our customers and potential customers. The optical communications industry is currently fragmented with many competitors developing different technologies. Some of these technologies may not gain market acceptance. Our products, including products based on polymer materials, may not be accepted by OEMs and systems integrators of optical communications networks and consumer electronics. In addition, even if we achieve some degree of market acceptance for our potential products in one industry, we may not achieve market acceptance in other industries for which we are developing products, which market acceptance is critical to meeting our financial targets. Many of our current products, particularly those based on polymer technology, are either in the development stage or are being tested by potential customers. We cannot be assured that our development efforts or customer tests will be successful or that they will result in actual material sales, or that such products will be commercially viable. Achieving market acceptance for our products will require marketing efforts and the expenditure of financial and other resources to create product awareness and demand by customers. It will also require the ability to provide excellent customer service. We may be unable to offer products that compete effectively due to our limited resources and operating history. Also, certain large corporations may be predisposed against doing business with a company of our limited size and operating history. Failure to achieve broad acceptance of our products by customers and to compete effectively would harm our operating results. 24 Table of Contents Successful commercialization of current and future products will require us to maintain a high level of technical expertise. Technology in our target markets is undergoing rapid change. To succeed in these target markets, we will have to establish and maintain a leadership position in the technology supporting those markets. Accordingly, our success will depend on our ability to: • accurately predict the needs of target customers and develop, in a timely manner, the technology required to support those needs; • provide products that are not only technologically sophisticated but are also available at a price acceptable to customers and competitive with comparable products; • establish and effectively defend our intellectual property; and • enter into relationships with other companies that have developed complementary technology into which our products may be integrated. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve any of these objectives. The failure to compete successfully could harm our business. We face competitive pressures from a variety of companies in our target markets. The telecom, data-com and consumer opto-electronics markets are highly competitive and we expect that domestic and international competition will increase in these markets, due in part to deregulation, rapid technological advances, price erosion, changing customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Increased competition could result in significant price competition, reduced revenues or lower profit margins. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have or may have substantially greater research and product development capabilities, financial, scientific, marketing, and manufacturing and human resources, name recognition and experience than we do. As a result, these competitors may: • succeed in developing products that are equal to or superior to our products or that will achieve greater market acceptance than our products; • devote greater resources to developing, marketing or selling their products; • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or scientific advances and changes in customer requirements, which could render our technologies or potential products obsolete; • introduce products that make the continued development of our potential products uneconomical; • obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit our ability to develop and commercialize potential products; • withstand price competition more successfully than us; • establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance their ability to address the needs of prospective customers better than us; and • take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily than us. Competitors may offer enhancements to existing products, or offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements that are available to customers on a more timely basis than comparable products from our company or that have the potential to replace or provide lower cost alternatives to our products. The introduction of enhancements or new products by competitors could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Each of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain effective intellectual property protection for our potential products and technology. Any intellectual property that we have or may acquire, license or develop in the future may not provide meaningful competitive advantages. Our patents and patent applications, including those we license, may be challenged by competitors, and the rights granted under such patents or patent applications may not provide meaningful proprietary protection. For example, there are patents held by third parties that relate to polymer materials and electro-optic devices. These patents could be used as a basis to challenge the validity or limit the scope of our patents or patent applications. A successful challenge to the validity or limitation of the scope of our patents or patent applications could limit our ability to commercialize the technology and, consequently, reduce revenues. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or those that we license, or successfully avoid these patents through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to resort to litigation, which can be expensive and time-consuming and may not succeed in protecting our proprietary rights. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that our patents or other intellectual property rights are not valid or are unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the intellectual property at issue on the ground that it is non-infringing. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect these rights as fully as the laws of the United States. We also rely on the law of trade secrets to protect unpatented technology and know-how. We try to protect this technology and know-how by limiting access to those employees, contractors and strategic partners with a need to know this information and by entering into confidentiality agreements with these parties. Any of these parties could breach the agreements and disclose our trade secrets or confidential information to competitors, or such competitors might learn of the information in other ways. Disclosure of any trade secret not protected by a patent could materially harm our business. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing potential products. Third parties may claim that our potential products or related technologies infringe their patents. Any patent infringement claims brought against us may cause us to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted, require us to pay substantial damages. In addition, as a result of a patent infringement suit, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. If our potential products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify customers for any damages they suffer. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our current or potential customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of these customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. 26 Table of Contents The technology that we license from various third parties may be subject to government rights and retained rights of the originating research institution. We license technology from various companies or research institutions, such as the University of Washington. Many of these partners and licensors have obligations to government agencies or universities. Under their agreements, a government agency or university may obtain certain rights over the technology that we have developed and licensed, including the right to require that a compulsory license be granted to one or more third parties selected by the government agency. In addition, our partners often retain certain rights under their licensing agreements, including the right to use the technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. It is difficult to monitor whether such partners limit their use of the technology to these uses, and we could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights to this licensed technology in the event of misuse. If we fail to develop and maintain the quality of our manufacturing processes, our operating results would be harmed. The manufacture of our products is a multi-stage process that requires the use of high-quality materials and advanced manufacturing technologies. With respect to our polymer-based products, polymer-related device development and manufacturing must occur in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. In spite of stringent quality controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of a product in a lot to be defective. If we are unable to develop and continue to improve on our manufacturing processes or to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, our operating results would be harmed. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs, which could result in the necessity to redesign products and could negatively impact our reputation with customers. Products as complex as ours may contain errors, defects and bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. Delivery of products with production defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems could significantly delay or hinder market acceptance of our products or result in a costly recall and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers. In particular, certain products are customized or designed for integration into specific network systems. If our products experience defects, we may need to undertake a redesign of the product, a process that may result in significant additional expenses. We may also be required to make significant expenditures of capital and resources to resolve such problems. There is no assurance that problems will not be found in new products after commencement of commercial production, despite testing by us, our suppliers and our customers. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time-consuming and costly and impair our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. We may be subject to product liability claims if any of our products are alleged to be defective or harmful. Product liability claims or other claims related to our potential products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, divert management’s time and attention from other business concerns, require us to pay significant damages, harm our reputation or hinder acceptance of our products. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. Any inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could impair our ability to commercialize our products. In addition, certain of our products are sold under warranties. The failure of our products to meet the standards set forth in such warranties could result in significant expenses to us. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our growth, and effectively transition from our focus on research and development activities to commercially successful products, our business could suffer. Failure to manage growth of operations could harm our business. To date, a large number of our activities and resources have been directed at the research and development of our technologies and development of potential related products. The transition from a focus on research and development to being a vendor of products requires effective planning and management. Additionally, growth arising from the expected synergies from future acquisitions will require effective planning and management. Future expansion will be expensive and will likely strain management and other resources. In order to effectively manage growth, we must: • continue to develop an effective planning and management process to implement our business strategy; • hire, train and integrate new personnel in all areas of our business; and • expand our facilities and increase capital investments. There is no assurance that we will be able to accomplish these tasks effectively or otherwise effectively manage our growth. Our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed if we do not achieve anticipated revenue. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from outside contract manufacturers, suppliers and foundries, we may need to order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize, or other factors render our products less marketable. If we are forced to hold excess inventory or incur unanticipated inventory write-downs, our financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based on our expectations of future revenue. We will have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Changes to production volumes and impact of overhead absorption may result in a decline in our financial condition or liquidity. We could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. Our operating cash flows are dependent on the continued collection of receivables. We could suffer losses if a customer is unable to pay. A significant loss on any accounts receivable would have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. The industry and markets in which we compete are subject to consolidation, which may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand. There has been industry consolidation among communications IC companies, network equipment companies and telecommunications companies in the past. This consolidation is expected to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their positions in evolving markets. Consolidation may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to fluctuations because we have international sales. International sales account for a large portion of our revenue and may account for an increasing portion of future revenue. The revenue derived from international sales may be subject to certain risks, including: • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export licenses; • political and economic instability; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in managing distributors; • difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for communications and other products; • reduced or uncertain protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. We are subject to regulatory compliance related to our operations. We are subject to various U.S. governmental regulations related to occupational safety and health, labor and business practices. Failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alterations of our production processes, cessation of operations, or other actions, which could harm our business. We may incur liability arising from our use of hazardous materials. Our business and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, handling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain toxic or hazardous materials and waste products that are used or generated in our operations. Many of these environmental laws and regulations subject current or previous owners or occupiers of land to liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials. In addition, these laws and regulations typically impose liability regardless of whether the owner or occupier knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials and regardless of whether the actions that led to their presence were taken in compliance with the law. Our domestic facilities use various chemicals in manufacturing processes that may be toxic and covered by various environmental controls. These hazardous materials may be stored on site. The waste created by use of these materials is transported off-site by an unaffiliated waste hauler. Many environmental laws and regulations require generators of waste to take remedial actions at an off-site disposal location even if the disposal was conducted lawfully. The requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. Failure to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, suspension of production, alteration of production processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could severely harm our business. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to export some of our potential products or technology to other countries, convey information about our technology to citizens of other countries or sell certain products commercially, if the products or technology are subject to U.S. export or other regulations. We are developing certain products that we believe the U.S. government and other governments may be interested in using for military and information gathering or antiterrorism activities. U.S. government export regulations may restrict us from selling or exporting these potential products into other countries, exporting our technology to those countries, conveying information about our technology to citizens of other countries or selling these potential products to commercial customers. We may be unable to obtain export licenses for products or technology if necessary. We currently cannot assess whether national security concerns would affect our potential products and, if so, what procedures and policies we would have to adopt to comply with applicable existing or future regulations. We are subject to risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Various laws and regulations potentially affect the import and export of our products, including export control, tax and customs laws. Furthermore, some customer purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which may differ significantly from laws in the United States. As a result, our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements may be limited compared with our ability to enforce our rights under agreements governed by laws in the United States. Our business is subject to foreign currency risk. Sales to customers located outside of the North America comprised 49% and 51% of our revenue for 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we have a subsidiary overseas (Switzerland) that records its operating expenses in a foreign currency. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date primarily in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. We currently do not have hedging or other programs in place to protect against adverse changes in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to other currencies to minimize potential adverse effects. Restrictive covenants under our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank may adversely affect our operations. Our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank contains a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our ability to, without prior written approval from Silicon Valley Bank: • Merge or consolidate, or permit any of our subsidiaries to merge or consolidate, with or into any other business organization, or acquire, or permit any of our subsidiaries to acquire, all or substantially all of the capital stock or property of another person; • Create, incur, or assume any indebtedness, other than certain indebtedness permitted under the loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank; and • Pay any dividends or make any distributions or payment on, or redeem, retire or repurchase any capital stock. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our loan and security agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remedy our material weaknesses or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in rules established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, were identified. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weaknesses were attributed to us not maintaining a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. We have adopted a remediation plan that we are in the process of implementing in conjunction with our proposed acquisition of Endwave. A key component of the remediation plan will be the addition of accounting personnel with the appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience, and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with the financial reporting requirements of a public company. We will continue to update and upgrade our internal processes and systems related to financial reporting. We expect to remediate the material weaknesses during 2011. In addition, other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. If we fail to remediate the material weakness or fail to implement required new or improved controls, or encounter difficulties in their implementation, it could harm our operating results, cause failure to meet our SEC reporting obligations on a timely basis or result in material misstatements in our annual or interim financial statements. There may be a limited public market for our common shares, and the ability of our stockholders to dispose of their common shares may be limited. Our common shares have been traded on the OTC Bulletin Board since December 2008. We cannot foresee the degree of liquidity that will be associated with our common shares. A holder of our common shares may not be able to liquidate his, her or its investment in a short time period or at the market prices that currently exist at the time the holder decides to sell. The market price for our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and such volatility may bear no relation to our performance. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. The sale of our outstanding common stock or shares issuable upon exercise of options or warrants, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock of decline. As of February 25, 2011, we had approximately 12,288,216 shares of common stock, options to purchase 7,472,993 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase approximately 2,106,751 shares of our common stock outstanding. These shares of common stock, including shares of common stock issued upon exercise of options and warrants, have either been registered under the Securities Act, and as such are freely tradable without further restriction, or are otherwise freely tradable without restriction (subject to the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act), unless the shares are purchased by “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any shares purchased by an affiliate may not be resold except pursuant to an effective registration statement or an applicable exemption from registration, including an exemption under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. In addition, one of our stockholders, the DBSI Liquidating Trust, holds 1,715,161 of our shares of common stock for which we have agreed to file a registration statement on Form S-1 for the resale registration of such shares following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future in private placements, public offerings or to finance mergers or acquisitions. 31 Table of Contents The exercise of options and warrants and other issuances of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock will dilute your interest. As of February 25, 2011, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 7,472,993 shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $2.60 per share, of which options to purchase 1,732,708 shares at a weighted-average exercise price of $3.92 per share were exercisable as of such date. As of February 25, 2011, there were warrants outstanding to purchase 2,053,417 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $15.61 per share. The exercise of options and warrants at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of shares of our common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our capital stock in connection with acquisitions or in connection with other financing efforts. Any issuance of our common stock that is not made solely to then-existing stockholders proportionate to their interests, such as in the case of a stock dividend or stock split, will result in dilution to each stockholder by reducing his, her or its percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares. Moreover, if we issue options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised, or if we issue restricted stock, stockholders may experience further dilution. In addition, certain warrants to purchase shares of our common stock currently contain an exercise price above the current market price for the common stock (these warrants are known as “above-market” warrants). As a result, these warrants may not be exercised prior to their expiration and we may not realize any proceeds from their exercise. Our quarter-to-quarter performance may vary substantially, and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. The revenues for our product lines and our quarterly operating results may vary significantly based on many factors, including: • reductions or delays in funding of development programs involving new polymer materials technologies by the U.S. government; • additions of new customers; • fluctuating demand for our products and technologies; • announcements or implementation by competitors of technological innovations or new products; • the status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements; • timing and amounts relating to the expansion of operations; • costs related to possible future acquisitions of technologies or businesses; • communications, information technology and semiconductor industry conditions; • fluctuations in the timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments; • the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by customers, including as a result of slowing demand for our products or our customers’ products; • changes in the mix of products that our customers buy; • competitive pressures on selling prices; • the ability of our customers to obtain components from their other suppliers; • fluctuations in manufacturing output, yields or other problems or delays in the fabrication, assembly, testing or delivery of our products or our customers’ products; and • increases in the costs of products or discontinuance of products by suppliers. 32 Table of Contents We base our current and future expense estimates, in large part, on estimates of future revenue, which is difficult to predict. We expect to continue to make significant operating and capital expenditures in the area of research and development and to invest in and expand production, sales, marketing and administrative systems and processes. We may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If our increased expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue in the same quarter, our quarterly operating results would be harmed. In future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of investors and the trading price of our common stock may decline as a consequence. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results will not be a good indication of future performance and should not be relied upon to predict the future performance of our stock price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover of our company even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These charter provisions include the following: • a requirement that our board of directors be divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of the directors to be elected each year; and • supermajority voting requirements (two-thirds of outstanding shares) applicable to the approval of any merger or other change of control transaction that is not approved by our continuing directors. The continuing directors are all of the directors as of the effective time of a merger or who are elected to the board upon the recommendation of a majority of the continuing directors. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. 