ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our financial results are subject to fluctuations caused by many factors that could result in our failing to achieve anticipated financial results. Our quarterly and annual financial results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, the capital goods industries in which we compete can have significant variations in the number, contractual terms and size of orders. The timing of our receipt of orders and our shipment of the products or provision of services can significantly impact the sales and income of a period. These and any one or more of the factors listed below, among other things, could cause us not to achieve our revenue or profitability expectations. The resulting failure to meet market expectations could cause a drop in our stock price. These factors include the risks discussed elsewhere in this section and the following: • Changes in demand for our products and services, including changes in growth rates in the food processing and air transportation industries; • Downturns in our customers’ businesses resulting from deteriorating domestic and international economies where our customers do substantial business; 20 Table of Contents • Changes in commodity prices resulting in increased manufacturing costs, such as petroleum-based products, metals or other raw materials we use in significant quantities; • Changes in pricing policies resulting from competitive pressures, such as aggressive price discounting by our competitors and other market factors; • Our ability to develop and introduce on a timely basis new or enhanced versions of our products and services; • Unexpected needs for capital expenditures or other unanticipated expenses; • Changes in the mix of revenue attributable to domestic and international sales; • Changes in the mix of products and services that we sell; • Seasonal fluctuations in buying patterns; and • Future acquisitions and divestitures of technologies, products and businesses. Unanticipated delays or acceleration in our sales cycles make accurate estimation of our revenue difficult and could result in significant fluctuation in quarterly operating results. The length of our sales cycle varies depending on a number of factors over which we may have little or no control, including the size and complexity of a potential transaction, the level of competition that we encounter in our selling activities and our current and potential customers’ internal budgeting and approval process. As a result of a generally long sales cycle, we may expend significant effort over a long period of time in an attempt to obtain an order, but ultimately not obtain the order, or the order ultimately received may be smaller than anticipated. Our revenue from different customers varies from quarter to quarter, and a customer with a large order in one quarter may generate significantly lower revenue in subsequent quarters. Due to resulting fluctuations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including interest rates, availability of capital, consumer spending rates, foreign currency exchange rates, energy availability and costs and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products or the cost and availability of our required raw materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. The recent disruptions in credit and other financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could, among other things: • make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain increased financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; • render our lenders or other financial instrument counterparties unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under a financing agreement; • impair the financial condition of some of our customers, thereby hindering our customers’ ability to obtain financing to purchase our products and/or increasing customer bad debts; • impair the financial condition of some of our suppliers thereby potentially increasing both the likelihood of having to renegotiate supply terms and the risk of non-performance by suppliers; • negatively impact global demand for air transportation services as well as protein food products and processed food products, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows in our JBT AeroTech and JBT FoodTech segments, respectively; • negatively affect our currency hedges; or • impair the financial viability of our insurers. 21 Table of Contents Some of our business segments are cyclical or are otherwise sensitive to volatile or variable factors. A downturn or weakness in overall economic activity or fluctuations in those other factors may have a material adverse effect on us. Historically, sales of products that we manufacture and sell have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes in general economic conditions and other factors. The strength of the economy generally may affect the rates of expansion, consolidation, renovation and equipment replacement within the air transportation industry and within the food processing industry, which may affect the performance of our JBT AeroTech and JBT FoodTech segments, respectively. Similarly, our sales depend in part upon our customers’ replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions may cause customers to forgo or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing equipment and machinery, thereby reducing our revenue and/or profits. The air transportation industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic condition; continued negative economic conditions likely may have a negative impact on our JBT AeroTech segment and our results of operations. The air transportation industry in general is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a constrained credit market, reduced consumer confidence, higher unemployment rates and increased business operating costs, particularly fuel costs, can reduce spending for both passenger travel and decrease demand for cargo air carrier services. Unfavorable economic conditions can also impact our customers’ ability to raise pricing to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs, making it less likely that they will expend resources on JBT AeroTech equipment as they have in the recent past. Demand for ground support equipment and inbound orders declined during the fourth quarter of 2008, which we believe may be primarily attributed to unfavorable financial conditions facing airlines and air freight companies. Therefore, a continued global economic downturn would likely continue to negatively impact our future results of operations in the JBT AeroTech segment in particular. Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we conduct business or fluctuations in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate manufacturing facilities in nine countries other than the United States, and our international operations accounted for approximately half of our 2008 revenue. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. These factors include: • Nationalization and expropriation; • Potentially burdensome taxation; • Increased growth in our international business operations and revenue relative to our domestic operations may result in increasing tax liabilities resulting from repatriation of income generated outside of the United States; • Continuing economic downturns, inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets; • Civil unrest, political instability, terrorist attacks and wars; • Seizure of assets; • Trade restrictions, trade protection measures or price controls; • Foreign ownership restrictions; • Import or export licensing requirements; 22 Table of Contents • Restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations; • Changes in governmental laws and regulations; • Inability to repatriate income or capital; and • Reductions in the availability of qualified personnel. Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in foreign currencies, changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our stockholders’ equity. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, but these results may fluctuate due to the fact that a significant portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies. Although we may seek to minimize our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where we deem it appropriate, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. To the extent we sell our systems and services in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our systems and services becoming too expensive for foreign customers. The increase in energy or raw material prices may reduce the profitability of our customers, which ultimately could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In recent years, energy prices have hit historically high levels. These increases had a negative trickle down effect on many areas involved in running a business, straining profitability through increased operating costs. Our customers require large amounts of energy to run their businesses, particularly in the air transportation industry. Energy prices can affect the profitability of passenger and cargo air carriers through increased jet and ground support equipment fuel prices. Energy prices also affect food processors through increased energy and utility costs to run the plant, chemical and petroleum based raw materials used in production and fuel costs to run logistics and service fleet vehicles. Food processors are also dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, livestock, produce and dairy products. Recent rises in the cost and limitations in availability of these commodities can negatively affect the profitability of their operations. A reduction in profitability due to increased energy or raw material prices within our customer base may reduce their future investments in food processing equipment or airport equipment. This reduction in investment may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in food consumption patterns due to diet trends or economic conditions may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Dietary trends can create demand for protein food products but negatively impact high-carbohydrate foods, or create demand for easy to prepare, transportable meals but negatively impact traditional canned products. Because various food types and packaging can quickly go in and out of style as a function of health, dietary or convenience trends, food processors can be challenged in forecasting the needed capacity and related equipment and services for their food plants. During periods of economic uncertainty, consumer demand for protein products or processed food products may also be negatively impacted by increases in food prices. Shifting consumer demand for protein products or processed foods may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An outbreak of animal borne diseases (H5N1, BSE or other virus strains affecting poultry or livestock) may negatively affect protein processors. An outbreak or pandemic stemming from H5N1 (avian flu) or BSE (mad cow disease) or any other animal related disease strains could reduce the availability of poultry or beef that is processed for the restaurant, food service, wholesale or retail consumer. Should a pandemic break out, eradication of entire regional animal populations could be mandated. 23 Table of Contents Any limitation on raw material could discourage producers from making additional capital investments in processing equipment, aftermarket products, parts and services. Such a decrease in demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An outbreak of food borne illness or other food safety or quality concerns may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should an E. coli or other food borne illness cause a recall of meat or produce, the companies supplying those fresh, further processed or canned forms of these products could be severely financially affected. This type of recall, whether voluntary or mandatory, could have broad ranging and long lasting negative affects on growers, packers, retailers, wholesalers and/or restaurants. If a consumer were to become critically ill due to the outbreak, the food provider’s reputation and brand could be permanently tarnished. Any affect on the financial viability of our customer base of fresh or processed food providers could seriously affect and reduce our immediate and recurring revenue base. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if consumers were to lose confidence in the safety or quality of certain food products or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying processed food products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any disruption within the food supply chain could have a negative effect on the demand for our food processing machinery and on our financial results. Freezes, hurricanes, droughts or other natural disasters may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should a natural disaster negatively affect the production of growers or farms, the food processing industry may not have the fresh foods necessary to meet consumer demand. The crops of entire groves or fields can be severely impacted by a drought, freeze or hurricane. Should a drought or freeze continue for an extended duration or high category hurricane directly impact a tree crop area, the trees themselves could be permanently damaged. If orchards had to be replanted, the trees may not produce viable product for several years. Since our revenue generation is dependent on a farmer’s ability to provide high quality crops to some of our customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. Citrus tree diseases may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The success of our citrus business is directly related to the viability and health of citrus crops. The citrus industries in Florida, Brazil and other countries are facing increased pressure on their harvests and citrus bearing acreage due to citrus canker and greening diseases. These citrus tree diseases are often incurable once a tree has been infested and the end result can be the destruction of the tree. We realize operating lease revenue based partially upon capacity or throughput that a citrus processor or produce packinghouse produces. Reduced amounts of available fruit for the processed or fresh markets could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations governing our U.S. government contracts or the loss of production funding of any of our U.S. government contracts could harm our business. The federal government is the largest contractor in the United States. Our JBT AeroTech business enters into contracts with the U.S. government, including a long-term contract relating to the sale of our Halvorsen Loader, which is a military air cargo loader, to the U.S. Air Force. As a result we are subject to various laws and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the U.S. government. The laws governing U.S. government contracts differ in several respects from the laws governing private contracts. They are heavily 24 Table of Contents regulated to curb misappropriation of funds and ensure uniform policies and practices across agencies. Their terms are carefully drafted by teams of government attorneys. Their ongoing funding is tied to National Defense Budgets and Procurement Programs that are annually negotiated and approved or disapproved by the U.S. Department of Defense, Executive Branch and the Congress. For example, if there were any shifts in spending priorities or if funding for the U.S. Air Force cargo loader program were reduced or cancelled, the resulting loss of revenue may have a material adverse impact on our JBT AeroTech business. Many U.S. government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. Moreover, U.S. defense contracts, in particular, are unilaterally terminable at the option of the U.S. government with compensation for work completed and costs incurred. Contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to special laws and regulations, the noncompliance with which may result in various sanctions. Contractors, sometimes without their knowledge, are subject to investigations by the U.S. government initiated in various ways. If, for any reason, we were now or at any time in the future found to be non-compliant to any laws or regulations governing U.S. government contracts, our earnings could be negatively impacted. In addition, any delays of deliverables due to our non-performance would also have a negative impact on these contracts. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers or the economy as a whole may materially adversely affect our operations or those of our customers. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries to our customers, decreased sales of our products and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as those relating to transportation and food processing may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the type of contracts we enter into, the cumulative loss of several major contracts may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We often enter into large, project-oriented contracts or long-term equipment leases and service agreements. These agreements may be terminated or breached, or our customers may fail to renew these agreements. If we were to lose several key agreements over a relatively short period of time and if we were to fail to develop alternative business opportunities, we could experience a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may lose money on fixed-price contracts. As is customary for several of the business areas in which we operate, we agree, in some cases, to provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the estimated amounts on which these contracts were originally based. There is inherent risk in the estimation process, including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times. A fixed-price contract may prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices (including the price of steel) through increased pricing. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Customer sourcing initiatives may negatively affect new equipment and aftermarket businesses. Integration of the supply chain to provide a sustainable competitive advantage has become an objective for many multi-national companies. With continued price pressure from consumers, wholesalers and retailers, manufacturers are focusing their efforts on ways to reduce costs, improve sourcing processes and enhance profitability. Although these inherently are good practices, it can depersonalize the sales process and result in a shift in focus to short term cost savings as opposed to fully understanding all of the cost components that are associated with capital goods and aftermarket products, parts and services purchases over the lifetime of the investment. If customers implement sourcing initiatives focused solely on immediate cost savings and not on total cost of ownership, our new equipment and aftermarket sales could be negatively affected. The emergence of low-cost suppliers in Asia may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Asian equipment manufacturers originally provided low cost and undifferentiated machinery to markets focused on less complex and less expensive solutions. Some of these equipment suppliers are shifting their focus upstream to an emerging domestic middle market and preparing themselves for worldwide competition. Although these competitors find it difficult to compete in the global arena through innovation or by establishing a strong brand presence, their determination cannot be underestimated and at some point in the future, may pose a threat to our global market positions. The solutions we sell are very complex, and we need to rapidly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in a global, competitive, demanding and changing environment. To succeed in the globally competitive food processing and air transportation industries, we must continually develop our product and service offerings. This requires a high level of innovation. In addition, bringing new solutions to the market entails a costly and lengthy process and requires us to accurately anticipate customer needs and technology trends. We must continue to respond to demands and develop leading technologies in the food processing and air transportation industries, or our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our innovations will be profitable, and if we cannot successfully market and sell both existing and newly developed solutions, our business and operating results could be impacted. Significant investments in unsuccessful research and development efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were to lose our significant technology advantage, our market share and growth could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to deliver products, features and functionality as projected, we may be unable to meet our commitments to customers, which could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by competing technology. Some of our competitors are large multinational companies that may have greater financial resources than us, and they may be able to devote greater resources to research and development of new systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. Moreover, some of our competitors operate in narrow business areas, allowing them to concentrate their research and development efforts directly on products and services for those areas. 26 Table of Contents When we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. Despite rigorous testing prior to their release and superior quality processes, newly developed or enhanced products and solutions may have some start up issues which may be found after the products are introduced and shipped. This risk is enhanced when products are first introduced, as well as when we develop products with more advanced technology, since the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. The correction and detection of issues may cause delays, lost revenue and incremental costs. While we attempt to remedy errors that we believe would be considered critical by our customers prior to shipment, we may not be able to detect or remedy all such errors. Our customers who rely on our solutions for business-critical applications are more sensitive to product errors, which could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims, as well as harm to our reputation. These and other risks associated with new product and service offerings may have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product introductions and certain enhancements of existing products by us in future periods may also reduce demand for our existing products or could delay purchases by customers awaiting arrival of our new products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products. In the ordinary course of business, we continually evaluate opportunities for new product and service offerings, new markets and new geographic sectors, and development of such opportunities could entail certain business risks which could affect our financial condition. If we are unable to develop, preserve and protect our intellectual property assets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected. As a technology company, our intellectual property portfolio is crucial to our continuing ability to be a leading solutions and services provider to the food processing and air transportation industries. We strive to protect and enhance our proprietary intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as through technological safeguards. To the extent we are not successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology without our authorization or independently developing technology that is similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing patents for these claims, and our competitors may already have applied for patents that, once issued, will prevail over our patent rights or otherwise limit our ability to sell our products. While we take steps to provide for confidentiality obligations of employees and third parties with whom we do business (including customers, suppliers and strategic partners), there is a risk that such parties will breach such obligations and jeopardize our intellectual property rights. Although we have agreements in place to mitigate this risk, there can be no assurance that such protections will be sufficient. We are actively engaged in efforts to protect the value of our intellectual property and to prevent others from infringing our intellectual property rights. However, due to the complex and technical nature of such efforts and the potentially high stakes involved, such enforcement activity can be expensive and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. 27 Table of Contents Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have seen a trend towards aggressive enforcement of intellectual property rights as the functionality of products in our industry increasingly overlaps and the volume of issued patents continues to grow. As a result, there is a risk that we could be subject to infringement claims which, regardless of their validity, could: • Be expensive, time consuming and divert management attention away from normal business operations; • Require us to pay monetary damages or enter into non-standard royalty and licensing agreements; • Require us to modify our product sales and development plans; or • Require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Regardless of whether these claims have any merit, they can be burdensome to defend or settle and can harm our business and reputation. Our information systems, computer equipment and information databases are critical to our business operations, and any damage or disruptions could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusions and other catastrophic events. A part of our operations is based in an area of California that has experienced power outages and earthquakes, while another part of our operations is based in an area of Florida that has experienced power outages and hurricanes. Despite our best efforts at planning for such contingencies, catastrophic events of this nature may still result in system failures and other interruptions in our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, it is periodically necessary to replace, upgrade or modify our internal information systems. If we are unable to do this in a timely and cost-effective manner, especially in light of demands on our information technology resources, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely impacted. Inadequate internal controls and accounting practices could lead to errors, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have internal controls and management oversight systems in place, however, we may not be able to prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial statements due to system errors, the potential for human error and unauthorized actions of employees or contractors, inadequacy of controls, temporary lapses in controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight of resource contracts and other factors. In addition, due to their inherent limitations, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial results as required under SEC and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules, which could increase our operating costs or impair our ability to operate our business. Controls may also become inadequate due to changes in circumstances, and it is necessary to replace, upgrade or modify our internal information systems from time to time. If we are unable to implement these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and support our customers as required may be materially adversely impacted and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents We may supplement our internal growth through strategic combinations, and our success depends on our ability to successfully integrate, operate and manage these acquired businesses and assets. We may supplement our internal growth through strategic combinations, asset purchases and other transactions that complement or expand our existing businesses. Each of these transactions involves a number of risks, including: • The diversion of our management’s attention from our existing businesses to integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business; • Possible material adverse effects on business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the integration process; and • Our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. We may hire additional employees in connection with these acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully integrate all of the newly hired employees, or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations in a competitive environment. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. We may seek to finance an acquisition through borrowings or through the issuance of new debt or equity securities. If we make a relatively large acquisition, we could deplete a substantial portion of our financial resources to the possible detriment of our other operations. Any future acquisitions could also dilute the equity interests of our stockholders, require us to write off assets for accounting purposes or create other undesirable accounting results, such as significant expenses for amortization or impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Loss of our key management and other personnel could impact our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, competition for skilled and non-skilled employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering, technology and manufacturing is intense, and the loss of skilled or non-skilled employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled and non-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully, develop new products and services and meet customers’ shipments. The industries in which we operate expose us to potential liabilities arising out of the installation or use of our systems that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our businesses supply equipment and systems for use in food processing as well as equipment, systems and services used in airports all over the world, which creates potential exposure for us to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, product liability, commercial claims, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. Although we have obtained business and related risk insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover all potential liabilities. Further, we cannot assure you that insurance will generally be available in the future or, if available, that premiums to obtain such insurance will be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Environmental protection initiatives may negatively impact the profitability of our business. Global initiatives to protect and steward the environment have moved to center stage. From global warming and climate change to urban sprawl and resource depletion, corporations and consumers are becoming more aware and concerned about the impact of human activity on the environment. Comprehensive global and national 29 Table of Contents greenhouse gas reduction programs have been proposed and are being discussed within legislatures, boardrooms and households. The ultimate costs, implementation and success of such broad reaching programs will be dependent on the precise emissions targets, the timing for the reductions and the means of implementation. Pressures to reduce the footprint of carbon emissions impact the air transportation and manufacturing sectors. Airports, airlines and air cargo providers are continually looking for new ways to become more energy efficient and reduce pollutants. Manufacturing plants are seeking means to reduce their heat-trapping emissions and minimize their energy and water usage. All of the initiatives come at a cost both to our customers’ operations as well as to our operating costs and therefore may materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations and industries are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, which laws can change. We therefore face uncertainties with regard to lawsuits, regulations and other related matters. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including those that relate to the environment, health and safety, employee benefits, export compliance, intellectual property, product liability, tax matters and regulatory compliance. For example, we are subject to changes in foreign laws and regulations that may encourage or require us to hire local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular non-U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, environmental laws and regulations affect the systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our systems. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. There is an increased focus by the SEC, and Department of Justice on enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). Given the breadth and scope of our international operations, we may not be able to detect or prevent improper or unlawful conduct by our international partners and employees, despite our ethics, governance and compliance standards, which could put us at risk regarding possible violations of laws, including the FCPA. Considerable management time and resources will be spent to understand and comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure (including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), SEC regulations and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange where our shares are listed. Although we do not believe that any recent regulatory and legal initiatives will result in significant changes to our internal practices or our operations, rapid changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, and federal securities laws and regulations, among others, may substantially increase costs to our organization and could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions. Relative to our stockholders’ equity, we have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had $185.6 million of long-term indebtedness outstanding and $8.8 million of stockholders’ deficit. This amount of debt is substantial and, when coupled with current adverse economic conditions, our debt could: • make it more difficult of costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; • require us to repatriate a substantial portion of our non-U.S. earnings and cash flow from operations for payments on our indebtedness, thereby increasing our effective tax rate and reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; or • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 30 Table of Contents See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” beginning on page 39. Risk Factors Relating to the Spin-Off We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from FMC Technologies. As a stand-alone, independent public company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, allowing our management to design and implement corporate policies and strategies that are based primarily on the characteristics of our business, to focus our financial resources on our unique operating needs and to implement and maintain a capital structure best suited for our company. However, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits expected as a result of the spin-off. Additionally, by separating from FMC Technologies, there is a risk that our company may be more susceptible to stock market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been were we still a part of the current FMC Technologies due to a reduction in market diversification. Prior to the spin-off, we have been able to take advantage of FMC Technologies’ size and purchasing power in procuring goods, technology and services, including insurance, employee benefit support and audit services. As a separate, stand-alone entity, we may be unable to continue to access financial and other resources on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to the separation. Furthermore, as a stand-alone company, we will not be able to enjoy certain benefits from FMC Technologies’ operating diversity, borrowing leverage and available capital for investments. If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, then our stockholders, we and/or FMC Technologies might be subject to significant tax liability. FMC Technologies received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. In addition, FMC Technologies obtained an opinion from Kirkland & Ellis LLP, substantially to the effect that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, will so qualify. Both the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of Kirkland & Ellis LLP were based, in part, on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS private letter ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Therefore, notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could later determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines on audit that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, FMC Technologies would be treated as if it had sold the common stock of our company for its fair market value, resulting in a taxable gain to the extent of the excess of such fair market value over its tax basis in the stock. In general, our initial public stockholders would be treated as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. Under the tax sharing agreement between FMC Technologies and us, we would generally be required to indemnify FMC Technologies against any tax owed by FMC Technologies resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) other actions or failures to act by us or (iii) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to operate our businesses may suffer if we do not, quickly and cost-effectively, establish our own financial, administrative and other support functions to successfully operate as a stand-alone entity, and we cannot assure you that the transitional services FMC Technologies has agreed to provide us will be sufficient for our needs. Historically, our businesses have relied on financial, administrative and other resources of FMC Technologies. After the spin-off, we were required to create our own financial, administrative and other support systems or contract with a third party to replace FMC Technologies’ resources. We entered into an agreement with FMC Technologies under which FMC Technologies provides us with certain transitional services , including services related to information technology systems, treasury, legal, financial and accounting services. Although FMC Technologies is contractually obligated to provide us with these services, these services may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at prices and on terms as favorable as we currently have them, after our agreement with FMC Technologies expires. Any failure or significant downtime in our own financial or administrative systems or in FMC Technologies’ financial or administrative systems during the transitional period could prevent us from paying our employees, billing our customers or performing other administrative services on a timely basis and could materially harm our business or operations. The agreements that we have entered into or will enter into with FMC Technologies may involve, or may appear to involve, conflicts of interest. Because the spin-off involved the separation of what are currently the FoodTech and Airport Systems business segments of FMC Technologies into JBT Corporation, we have entered into certain agreements with FMC Technologies to provide a framework for our initial relationship with FMC Technologies following the spin-off. We negotiated these agreements with FMC Technologies while we were still business segments of FMC Technologies. Accordingly, some of the persons who became our officers and directors were employees, officers or directors of FMC Technologies or its subsidiaries, and, as such, previously had an obligation to serve the interests of FMC Technologies and its subsidiaries. As a result, they could be viewed as having a conflict of interest. We could be liable to FMC Technologies for adverse tax consequences resulting from certain change-in-control transactions and therefore could be prevented from engaging in strategic or capital raising transactions. FMC Technologies could recognize a taxable gain if the spin-off is determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in either FMC Technologies or JBT Corporation. Under the Code, any acquisitions of FMC Technologies or JBT Corporation within the four-year period beginning two years before the date of the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan. Regulations issued by the IRS, however, provide mitigating rules in many circumstances. Nonetheless, a merger, recapitalization or acquisition, or issuance or redemption of our common stock after the spin-off could, in some circumstances, be counted toward the 50% change of ownership threshold. The tax sharing agreement between FMC Technologies and us precludes us from engaging in some of these transactions unless we first obtain a tax opinion acceptable to FMC Technologies or an IRS ruling to the effect that such transactions will not result in additional taxes. The tax sharing agreement further requires us to indemnify FMC Technologies for any resulting taxes owed by FMC Technologies regardless of whether we first obtain such opinion or ruling. As a result, we may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that stockholders might consider favorable or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us. 32 Table of Contents Our corporate governance documents, our rights plan and Delaware law may delay or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it difficult and expensive for a third-party to pursue a tender offer, change-in-control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and Board of Directors. These provisions include, among others: • A Board that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • Limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors; • The right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • Inability of our stockholders to act by written consent; and • Rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors at stockholders meetings. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in this type of transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change-in-control or a change in our management or Board and, as a result, may adversely affect the marketability and market price of our common stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan intended to deter hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, if any person or group acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that could result in such person acquiring 15% or more of our common stock, without approval of our Board under specified circumstances, our other stockholders will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. Therefore, the rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board, except pursuant to any offer conditioned on a substantial number of rights being acquired. We are also subject to the provisions of Delaware law described below regarding business combinations with interested stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law applies to a broad range of business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an interested stockholder. The Delaware law definition of “business combination” includes mergers, sales of assets, issuances of voting stock and certain other transactions. An “interested stockholder” is defined as any person who owns, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. Section 203 prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless: • The Board approved the business combination before the stockholder became an interested stockholder, or the Board approved the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; • Upon completion of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, such stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock outstanding when the transaction began other than shares held by directors who are also officers and other than shares held by certain employee stock plans; or • The Board approved the business combination after the stockholder became an interested stockholder and the business combination was approved at a meeting by at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock not owned by such stockholder. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 