Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to those set forth below: Risks Related to Our Business We do not have sufficient capital resources to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months and there can be no certainty that we will be able to secure the financing required to meet those requirements. If we do not have sufficient capital to fund our operations, you may lose your investment. As of March 31, 2010 we had CAD $1,444 in our bank account. For the year ended March 31, 2010 our monthly cash requirement was approximately CAD $35,325. As of March 31, 2010 we did not have sufficient capital resources to fund our operations for one month. We intend to meet our ongoing cash requirements of CAD $1,047,000 for the next 12 months through a combination of equity and debt financing. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure such financing. If financing is available, it may involve issuing securities which could be dilutive to holders of our shares. In the event we do not raise additional capital from conventional sources, such as our existing investors or commercial banks, it is likely that our growth will be restricted and we may be forced to sca le back or curtail implementing our business plan and our business may fail. If we do not have sufficient capital to fund our operations, you may lose your investment. Because our auditors have issued a going concern opinion, there is substantial uncertainty we will continue operations in which case you could lose your investment. Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion. This means that there is substantial doubt that we can continue as an ongoing business for the next 12 months. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the uncertainty about our ability to continue in business. As such we may have to cease operations and you could lose your investment. Intelimax was incorporated on April 17, 2006, generated CAD $10,972 in revenue as of March 31, 2010, and have losses that we expect to continue into the future. There is no assurance our future operations will result in profitable revenues. If we cannot generate sufficient revenues to operate profitably, we will cease operations and you will lose your investment. Intelimax’s accumulated deficit from April 17, 2006 (inception) through March 31, 2010 was CAD $2,273,581. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon: ● completion of this offering; ● our ability to develop and continually update our websites, internet search utilities and gaming software; ● our ability to procure and maintain on commercially reasonable terms relationships with third parties to integrate and maintain our search utilities and game software; ● our ability to identify and pursue mediums through which we will be able to market our products; ● our ability to attract customers to our products; ● our ability to generate revenues through advertisements on our websites; and ● our ability to manage growth by managing administrative overhead. Based upon current plans, we expect to incur operating losses in future periods because we will be incurring expenses and not generating significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in generating significant revenues in the future. Failure to generate revenues which are greater than our expenses will cause you to lose your investment. 12 If we cannot prevent other companies from infringing on our technologies, we may not achieve profitability and you may lose your investment. Our success is heavily dependent upon proprietary technology. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely principally upon copyright and trade secret protection. All proprietary information that can be copyrighted is marked as such. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to prevent misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology. Further, the laws of certain countries in which we anticipate licensing our technologies and products do not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We generally do not include in our software any mechanism to prevent or inhibit unauthorized use, but we generally require the execution of an agreement that restricts unauthorized copying and use of our products. If unauthorized copying or misuse of our products were to occur, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. While the disclosure and use of our proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets are generally controlled under agreements with the parties involved, there can be no assurance that all confidentiality agreements will be honored, that others will not independently develop similar or superior technology, that disputes will not arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property, or that dissemination of our proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets will not occur. Further, if an infringement claim is brought against us, litigation would be costly and time consuming, but may be necessary to protect our proprietary rights and to defend ourselves. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in the defense of any claims relating to the proprietary rights of others or in asserting claims against others. & #160;If we cannot prevent other companies from infringing on our technologies, we may not achieve profitability and you may lose your investment. If we are subject to intellectual property rights claims which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future we may not generate sufficient revenues or achieve profitability. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims in the future and our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products and services to others and may require that we procure substitute products or services for these members. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our brand and prevent us from generating sufficient revenue or achieving profitability. Changing consumer preferences will require periodic product introduction. If we are unable to continually meet consumer preferences we may not generate significant revenues. As a result of changing consumer preferences, many Internet search utilities and websites are successfully marketed for a limited period of time. Even if our products become popular, there can be no assurance that any of our searching or gaming products will continue to be popular for a period of time. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop new and improved product lines. Our failure to introduce new features and product lines and to achieve and sustain market acceptance could result in us being unable to continually meet consumer preferences and generating significant revenues. We face intense competition and if we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors we will not be able to achieve profitability. The Internet search and Internet gaming industries are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, broader product lines and greater financial resources and advertising budgets than we do. Many of our competitors offer similar products or alternatives to our products. There can be no assurance that we will procure an on-line market that will be available to support the sites we will offer or allow us to seek expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in this marketplace. Further, our competitors may be able to develop technologies more effectively, have significantly more game content than us, may be able to license their technologies on more favorable terms, and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing or licensing policies than us. They may have longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. In the event that we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors we will not be able to achieve profitability. 13 If we do not attract customers to our website on cost-effective terms, we will not make a profit, which ultimately will result in a cessation of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract retail customers to our website on cost-effective terms. Our strategy to attract customers to our website, which has not been formalized or implemented, includes viral marketing, the practice of generating "buzz" among Internet users in our products through the developing and maintaining weblogs or "blogs", online journals that are updated frequently and available to the public, postings on online communities such as Facebook, MySpace, Yahoo!(R) Groups and amateur websites such as YouTube.com, and other methods of getting Internet users to refer others to our website by e-mail or word of mouth; search engine optimization, marketing our website via search engines by purchasing sponsored placement in search results; and entering into affiliate marketing relationships with website providers to increase our access to Internet consumers. We expect to rely on word of mouth marketing as the primary source of traffic to our website, with search engine optimization and affiliate marketing as secondary sources. Our marketing strategy may not be enough to attract sufficient traffic to our website. We do not currently employ any personnel specifically assigned to the marketing of our products. If we do not attract customers to our website on cost-effective terms, we will not make a profit, which ultimately will result in a cessation of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and employees and the loss of the services of such key personnel could result in a disruption of operations which could result in reduced revenues. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team, in particular our President, Michael Young, and our Chief Executive Officer, Charles Green. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain high-quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. We do not currently maintain key man insurance on our senior managers. The loss of the services of our senior management team and employees could result in a disruption of operations which could result in reduced revenues. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively, generate sufficient revenues and achieve profitability. Our performance and future success depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. We will need to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in the software industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. As competition in our industry intensifies, it may be more difficult for us to hire, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting additional highly skilled personnel or retaining or motivating our existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively generate sufficient revenues and achieve profitability. All of our assets and our directors and officers are outside the United States, with the result that it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or our directors and officers. All of our assets are located outside the United States and we do not currently maintain a permanent place of business within the United States. In addition, a majority of our officers and directors are nationals and/or residents of a country other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of her assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or our directors and officers, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Consequently, you may be effectively prevented from pursuing remedies under United States federal and state securities laws against us or our directors and officers. If we are unable to adapt or expand our existing technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or additional customer requirements, we may lose customers which will prevent us from achieving profitability. Our website regularly serves a large number of users and customers and delivers a large number of daily video views. Our technology infrastructure is highly complex and may not provide satisfactory service in the future, especially as the number of customers using our gaming and searching services increases. We may be required to upgrade our technology infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites, such as increasing the capacity of our hardware servers and the sophistication of our software. If we fail to adapt our technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or customer requirements, our users and customers may become dissatisfied with our services and switch to our competitors’ websites, which will prevent us from achieving profitability. 14 Risks Relating to the Internet Industry and Technology Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. Outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services and reduce our revenues. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. The Internet has experienced a var iety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services and reduce our revenues. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our ability to provide our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could interrupt our service. Service interruptions could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our brand if our system is perceived to be unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of terrorist attacks, war, earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, interruptions in access to our websites through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Our servers, which are hosted at third-party internet data centers, are also vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redu ndant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all possible scenarios. The occurrence of a natural disaster or a closure of an internet data center by a third-party provider without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. If our software contains undetected errors, we could lose the confidence of users, resulting in loss of customers and a reduction of revenue. Our online systems, including our websites, our enterprise video play software and other software applications and products, could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. We regularly update and enhance our website and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our software products and applications. The occurrence of errors in any of these may cause us to lose market share, damage our reputation and brand name, and reduce our revenues. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our customers and our revenues could decline. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on ads posted by individuals seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to our web publishers when we commence internet advertising services. Although we have not historically generated revenues from advertising, we may do so in the future. We may have to refund revenue that our advertisers have paid to us and that was later attributed to click-through fraud. Click-through fraud occurs when an individual clicks on an ad displayed on a website for the sole intent of generating the revenue share payment to the publisher rather than to view the underlying content. From time to time it is possible that fraudulent clicks will occur and we would not allow our advertisers to be charged for such fraudulent clicks. This would negatively affect the profitability of our online advertising agency business , and this type of fraudulent act could hurt our brand. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our performance-based advertising network, which could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied with our online advertising agency business, and in turn lead to loss of advertisers and the related revenue. At the moment, we have no specific plans to focus on mitigating this risk through specific actions but we may need to subscribe to certain applicable software platforms that detect click-through fraud and possibly work with consultants to further mitigate this risk. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our customers and our revenues could decline. If the security measures that we use to protect their personal information, such as credit card numbers, are ineffective, our customers may lose their confidence in our websites and stop visiting them. This may result in a reduction in revenues and increase our operating expenses, which would prevent us from achieving profitability. Any breach in our website security could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We anticipate that we will rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide secure transmission of confidential information. As a result of advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments, a compromise or breach of our security precautions may occur. A compromise in our proposed security could severely harm our business. A party who is able to circumvent our proposed security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card information, or cause interruptions in the operation of our website. We may be required to spend significant funds and other resources to protect against the threat of security bre aches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. However, protection may not be available at a reasonable price, or at all. Concerns regarding the security of e-commerce and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. This may result in a reduction in revenues and increase our operating expenses, which would prevent us from achieving profitability. 15 Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Stock There is no active trading market for our common stock and if a market for our common stock does not develop, our investors will be unable to sell their shares. There is currently no active trading market for our common stock and such a market may not develop or be sustained. Our common stock is currently listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, but since it has become eligible for quotation, there have not been any trades in our stock. Further, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a listing service or exchange, but is instead a dealer quotation service for subscribing members. If a public market for our common stock does not develop, then investors may not be able to resell the shares of our common stock that they have purchased and may lose all of their investment. If we establish a trading market for our common stock, the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, general market conditions and other factors. In additio n, the stock market has from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have particular affected the market prices of the shares of developmental stage companies, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock in a material manner. We will likely conduct further offerings of our equity securities in the future, in which case your proportionate interest may become diluted. We completed an offering of 7,000,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $0.005 per share to investors on May 26, 2009. Since our inception, we have relied on such sales of our common stock to fund our operations. We will likely be required to conduct additional equity offerings in the future to finance our current business or to finance subsequent businesses that we decide to undertake. If common stock is issued in return for additional funds, the price per share could be lower than that paid by our current stockholders. We anticipate continuing to rely on equity sales of our common stock in order to fund our business operations. If we issue additional stock, your percentage interest in us will be diluted. Though our common stock has been quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board since January 22, 2009, there have been no trades in our stock since that day. This could adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and the available price for the shares when sold. You may not be able to sell your shares at your purchase price or at any price at all. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the trading symbol “CRJI”. The market for our stock is highly volatile. We cannot assure you that there will be a market in the future for our common stock. Trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often sporadic and investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations, which may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. You may not be able to sell your shares at your purchase price or at any price at all. Accordingly, you may have difficulty reselling any shares your purchase from the selling security holders. Because the SEC imposes additional sales practice requirements on brokers who deal in our shares which are penny stocks, some brokers may be unwilling to trade them. This means that you may have difficulty reselling your shares or the price of the shares could decline. Our shares would be classified as penny stocks and are covered by Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) which imposes additional sales practice requirements on brokers-dealers who sell our securities in this offering or in the aftermarket. For sales of our securities, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination and receive from you a written agreement prior to making a sale for you. Because of the imposition of the foregoing additional sales practices, it is possible that brokers will not want to make a market in our shares. This could prevent you from reselling your shares and may cause the price of the shares to decline. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sales practice requirements may also limit your ability to buy and sell our stock, which could depress our share price. FINRA rules require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, depressing our share price. 16 Our security holders may face significant restrictions on the resale of our securities due to state “blue sky” laws. Each state has its own securities laws, often called “blue sky” laws, which (1) limit sales of securities to a state’s residents unless the securities are registered in that state or qualify for an exemption from registration and (2) govern the reporting requirements for broker-dealers and stock brokers doing business directly or indirectly in the state. Before a security is sold in a state, there must be a registration in place to cover the transaction, or it must be exempt from registration. Also, the broker must be registered in that state. We do not know whether our securities will be registered, or exempt, under the laws of any states. A determination regarding registration will be made by the broker-dealers, if any, who agree to serve as the market-makers for our securities. There may be significant state blue sky law restri ctions on the ability of investors to sell, and on purchasers to buy, our securities. Investors should consider the resale market for our securities to be limited. Security holders may be unable to resell their securities, or they may be unable to resell them without the significant expense of state registration or qualification. We do not intend to pay dividends and there will be less ways in which you can make a gain on any investment in us. We have never paid any cash or stock dividends and currently do not intend to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. To the extent that we require additional funding currently not provided for in our financing plan, our funding sources may prohibit the payment of a dividend. Because we do not intend to declare dividends, any gain on an investment in us will need to come through appreciation of the stock’s price. There will be less ways in which you can make a gain on any investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As a “smaller reporting company”, we are not required to provide the information required by this Item. 