Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: the adequacy of our current warehouse lines for our current operations and our ability to operate our LendingTree Loans business at a reduced capacity if we were to lose one of these lines; our belief that we will continue to adjust selling and marketing expenditures generally in relation to 6 Table of Contents revenue producing opportunities and that our selling and marketing efforts will continue to represent a high percentage of our revenues; our Compensation Committee's belief that placing a greater emphasis on incentive arrangements and equity compensation will result in the Company's executives and employees being paid for performance and will better align their incentives with the Company's strategic goals; our belief that we will need to make capital and other expenditures in connection with the development and expansion of our overall operations; and our belief that our sources of liquidity are sufficient to fund our operating needs, including debt requirements, commitments and contingencies, and capital and investing commitments for the foreseeable future. These forward-looking statements also include statements related to: Tree.com's anticipated financial performance; Tree.com's business prospects and strategy; anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which Tree.com businesses operate; new products, services and related strategies; and other similar matters. These forward looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements included in this report for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect Tree.com's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of Tree.com management as of the date of this report. Tree.com does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Tree.com's business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to certain risks that are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Tree.com. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial may also impair Tree.com's business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse Events and Trends—Adverse conditions in the primary and secondary mortgage markets, as well as the economy generally, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The primary and secondary mortgage markets have been experiencing unprecedented and continuing disruption, which has had and is expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These conditions, coupled with adverse economic conditions and continuing declines in residential real estate prices generally, have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in decreased consumer demand for the lending and real estate offerings provided by our networks and other businesses. Generally, increases in interest rates adversely affect the ability of the Exchanges and Network Lenders to close loans, while adverse economic trends limit the ability of the Exchanges and Network Lenders to offer home loans other than low margin conforming loans. Likewise, adverse economic trends have reduced, and are expected to continue to reduce, the number of prospective home purchasers and home prices, which adversely affects our Real Estate business. Our businesses may experience a further decline in demand for their offerings due to decreased consumer demand as a result of the conditions described above now or in the future. Conversely, during periods of robust consumer demand, which are typically associated with decreased interest rates, some Network Lenders may have less incentive to use our networks, or in the case of sudden increases in consumer demand, our Network Lenders may lack the ability to support sudden increases in volume. Prolonged declines in demand for offerings of our businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The secondary mortgage markets have also been experiencing unprecedented and continued disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. LendingTree Loans/Home Loan Center, Inc. ("HLC") does not have the capital resources or credit necessary to retain the loans it funds and closes and, as a result, sells substantially all such loans within 30 days of funding as discussed above. Accordingly, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may force HLC to significantly reduce the volume of loans that it originates and funds, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These disruptions and volatility in the capital and credit markets have resulted in rapid and steep declines in prevailing stock prices, particularly in the financial services sector, as well as downward pressure on credit availability. These adverse conditions adversely affect our Network Lenders, secondary market purchasers, and third-party real estate professionals, and may render them unwilling or unable to continue business relationships with us. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect on our business relationships and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse Events and Trends—Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Declines in the housing market since 2008, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to other asset-backed securities, credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets will likely improve materially in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Further, our business could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other businesses in the financial services sector. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more of these entities, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Any such losses or defaults could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse Events and Trends—Adverse conditions in the credit markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The credit markets, in particular those financial institutions that provide warehouse financing and similar arrangements to mortgage lenders, have been experiencing unprecedented and continued disruptions resulting from instability in the mortgage and housing markets. LendingTree Loans originates, processes, approves and funds various consumer mortgage loans through HLC, which operates primarily under the brand name "LendingTree Loans®." These direct lending operations have significant financing needs that are currently being met through borrowings under warehouse lines of 8 Table of Contents credit or repurchase agreements to fund and close loans, followed by the sale of substantially all loans funded to investors in the secondary mortgage markets. Current credit market conditions, such as significantly reduced and limited availability of credit, increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants and increased interest rates generally, increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt and may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. As of December 31, 2010, LendingTree Loans had two committed lines of credit totaling $150.0 million of borrowing capacity. LendingTree Loans also has a $25.0 million uncommitted line with one of these lenders. Borrowings under these lines of credit are used to fund, and are secured by, consumer residential loans that are held for sale. Loans under these lines of credit are repaid using proceeds from the sales of loans held for sale by LendingTree Loans. The $50.0 million first line is scheduled to expire June 29, 2011. This line can be cancelled at the option of the lender without default upon sixty days notice. This first line includes an additional uncommitted credit facility of $25.0 million. This first line is also guaranteed by Tree.com, Inc., LendingTree, LLC and LendingTree Holdings Corp. The interest rate under the first line is 30-day LIBOR or 2.00% (whichever is greater) plus 2.25%. The interest rate under the $25.0 million uncommitted line is 30-day LIBOR plus 1.50%. LendingTree Loans is also required to sell at least 25% of the loans it originates to the lender under this line or pay a "pair-off fee" of 0.25% on the difference between the required and actual volume of loans sold. The borrowing capacity of the second line was increased from $75.0 million to $100.0 million upon renewal of the line effective October 29, 2010. The expiration date of this line is October 28, 2011. This second line is also guaranteed by Tree.com, Inc., LendingTree, LLC and LendingTree Holdings Corp. The interest rate under this line was decreased from 30-day Adjusted LIBOR or 2.0% (whichever is greater) plus 2.50% to 3.0% prior to renewal, to 30-day Adjusted LIBOR or 2.0% (whichever is greater) plus 2.25% to 2.5% after renewal, for loans being sold to the lender. Additionally, the interest rate for loans not being sold to the lender was decreased from 30-day Adjusted LIBOR or 2.0% (whichever is greater) plus 2.75% prior to renewal, to 30-day Adjusted LIBOR or 2.0% (whichever is greater) plus 2.25% after renewal. Under the terms of these warehouse lines, LendingTree Loans is required to maintain various financial and other covenants. These financial covenants include, but are not limited to, maintaining (i) minimum tangible net worth of $25.0 million, (ii) minimum liquidity, (iii) a minimum current ratio, (iv) a maximum ratio of total liabilities to net worth, (v) a maximum leverage ratio, (vi) pre-tax net income requirements and (vii) a maximum warehouse capacity ratio. During the year ended December 31, 2010, LendingTree Loans was in compliance with the covenants under the lines. We intend to renew both of these warehouse lines. Although we believe that our existing lines of credit are adequate for our current operations, further reductions in our available credit, or the inability to renew or replace these lines, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. LendingTree Loans attempts to mitigate the impact of current conditions and future credit market disruptions by maintaining committed and uncommitted warehouse lines of credit with several financial institutions. However, these financial institutions, like all financial institutions, are subject to the same adverse market conditions and may be affected by recent market disruptions, which may affect the decision to reduce or renew these lines or the pricing for these lines. As a result, current committed warehouse lines of credit may be reduced or not renewed, and alternative financing may be unavailable or inadequate to support operations or the cost of such alternative financing may not allow LendingTree Loans to operate at profitable levels. Because LendingTree Loans is highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance its operations, the continuation of current credit market conditions for a prolonged period of time or the worsening of such conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly over the next few years. 9 Table of Contents Adverse Events and Trends—Our financial results fluctuate as a result of seasonality, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance and may affect our common stock price. Our business is generally subject to seasonal trends. These trends reflect the general patterns of housing sales, which typically peak in the spring and summer seasons. Additionally, the broader cyclical trends in the mortgage and real estate markets have upset the usual seasonal trends. As a result, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock. Contingent Liabilities—Litigation and Indemnification of Secondary Market Purchasers—Litigation and indemnification of secondary market purchasers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In connection with the sale of loans to secondary market purchasers, HLC makes certain representations regarding related borrower credit information, loan documentation and collateral. To the extent that these representations are incorrect, HLC may be required to repurchase loans or indemnify secondary market purchasers for losses due to borrower defaults. While HLC seeks to ensure that loans it originates comply with these representations, secondary market purchasers may take a contrary position. In connection with the sale of loans to secondary market purchasers, HLC also agrees to repurchase loans or indemnify secondary market purchasers for losses due to early payment defaults (i.e., late payments during a limited time period immediately following HLC's origination of the loan). In connection with the sale of a majority of its loans to secondary market purchasers, HLC also agrees to repay all or a portion of the initial premiums paid by secondary market purchasers in instances where the borrower prepays the loan within a specified period of time. HLC has made payments for these liabilities in the past and expects to make payments for these in the future. Third-Party Relationships—We depend on relationships with Network Lenders, real estate professionals, credit providers and secondary market investors and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in significant part, on the quality and pricing of services provided by, and/or the continued financial stability of, Network Lenders and real estate professionals participating on our networks, credit providers and secondary market investors. Network Lenders or real estate professionals could, for any reason, cease participating on the networks operated by (or otherwise choose not to enter into relationships with) our businesses, fail to pay matching and/or closing fees when due and/or cease providing quality services on competitive terms. In addition, credit providers and/or secondary market investors could, for any reason, choose not to make credit available to (or otherwise enter into relationships with) HLC, and in the case of secondary market investors only, cease purchasing loans from HLC. In particular, revenues attributable to purchases of loans by three such entities, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Wells Fargo, represented approximately 25%, 24% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues in 2010. The occurrence of one of more of these events with a significant number of Network Lenders, real estate professionals, credit providers and/or secondary market investors could, alone or in combination, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-Party Relationships Are Not Exclusive—Network Lenders and real estate professionals affiliated with our networks are not precluded from offering products and services outside of our networks. Because our businesses do not have exclusive relationships with Network Lenders and real estate professionals, consumers may obtain loans and real estate offerings directly from these third-party service providers without having to use our networks. Network Lenders can offer loans (and real estate professionals can offer services) directly to consumers through marketing campaigns or other traditional methods of distribution, such as referral arrangements, brick and mortar operations or, in the case of lending, broker agreements. Network Lenders and real estate professionals can also offer loans and services to prospective customers online directly, through one or more online competitors of our 10 Table of Contents businesses, or both. If a significant number of consumers seek loans and services directly from Network Lenders and real estate professionals as opposed to through our networks, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Network Security—A breach of our network security or the misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information maintained by us could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Claims could also be made against us for other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized purposes or identity theft, which could result in litigation and financial liabilities, as well as administrative action from governmental authorities. Security breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. In that regard, on April 21, 2008, we announced that several mortgage companies had gained unauthorized access to LendingTree's customer information database and had used the information to solicit mortgage loans directly from our customers. We promptly reported the situation to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and have been cooperating fully with the FBI's investigation. While LendingTree does not believe this situation resulted in any fraud on the consumer or identity theft, LendingTree notified affected consumers as required by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following our announcement, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against LendingTree, seeking to recover damages for consumers allegedly injured by this incident. All but one of these lawsuits have been dismissed or withdrawn (see Item 3 below). As in the case of any financial services company, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with which we are affiliated or otherwise conduct business online. Consumers are generally concerned with security and privacy of the Internet, and any publicized security problems affecting our businesses and/or those of third parties may discourage consumers from doing business with us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to Provide Competitive Service—Network Lenders and real estate professionals may not provide competitive levels of service to consumers, which could adversely affect our brands and businesses and their ability to attract consumers. The ability of our businesses to provide consumers with a high-quality experience depends, in part, on consumers receiving competitive levels of convenience, customer service, price and responsiveness from Network Lenders and real estate professionals with whom they are matched through our networks. If Network Lenders and real estate professionals do not provide consumers with competitive levels of convenience, customer service, price and responsiveness, the value of our various brands may be harmed, the ability of our businesses to attract consumers to our websites may be limited and the number of consumers ultimately matched through our networks may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Brand Recognition—Failure to maintain brand recognition and attract and retain customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to attract visitors to their websites, convert these visitors into paying customers and capture repeat business from existing customers, our businesses must promote and maintain their various brands successfully, which involves the expenditure of considerable money and resources for online and offline advertising, marketing and related efforts, as well as the continued provision and introduction of high-quality products and services. 11 Table of Contents We believe that continuing to build and maintain the recognition of our various brands is critical to achieving increased demand for the services provided by our businesses, given that brand recognition is a key differentiating factor among providers of online services. Accordingly, we have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts of capital on, and devote significant resources to, branding, advertising and other marketing initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. The failure of our businesses to maintain the recognition of their respective brands and attract and retain customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, publicity from legal proceedings against us or our businesses, particularly governmental proceedings, consumer class action litigation or the disclosure of information security breaches, could negatively impact our various brands, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technology—We depend on search engines and other online sources to attract visitors to our websites, and if we are unable to attract these visitors and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and financial results may be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract online consumers to our websites and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. We depend, in part, on search engines and other online sources for our website traffic. We are included in search results as a result of both paid search listings, where we purchase specific search terms that will result in the inclusion of our listing, and algorithmic searches that depend upon the searchable content on our sites. Search engines and other online sources revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for website traffic were to modify its general methodology for how it displays our websites, resulting in fewer consumers clicking through to our websites, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If any free search engine on which we rely begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, we could lose customers and traffic to our websites could decrease, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technology—If we are unable to continually enhance our products and services and adapt them to technological changes and customer needs, including the emergence of new computing devices and more sophisticated online services, we may lose market share and revenue and our business could suffer. We need to anticipate, develop and introduce new products, services and applications on a timely and cost-effective basis that keeps pace with technological developments and changing customer needs. For example, the number of individuals who access the internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital assistants, mobile telephones, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased significantly, and this trend is likely to continue. Our websites were designed for rich, graphical environments such as those available on desktop and laptop computers. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices currently available may make the access and use of our websites through such devices difficult. Because each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for its devices, our websites may not be functional or viewable on these devices. Additionally, new devices and new platforms are continually being released. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in improving our websites' functionality with these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the improvement, support and maintenance of our websites. If we fail to develop our websites to respond to these or other technological developments and changing customer needs cost effectively, we may lose market share, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Compliance and Changing Laws, Rules and Regulations—Failure to comply with existing or evolving laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our businesses to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain required licenses, could result in administrative fines and/or proceedings against us or our businesses by governmental agencies and/or litigation by consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses market and provide services in heavily regulated industries through a number of different online and offline channels across the United States. As a result, our businesses are subject to a variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions in the United States, which are subject to change at any time. Our businesses conduct marketing activities via the telephone, the mail and/or through online marketing channels, which general marketing activities are governed by numerous federal and state regulations, such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, state telemarketing laws, federal and state privacy laws, the CAN-SPAM Act, and the Federal Trade Commission Act and its accompanying regulations and guidelines, among others. While we believe that the practices of our businesses have been structured in a manner to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, federal or state regulatory authorities may take a contrary position. Additional federal, state and in some instances, local, laws regulate residential lending and real estate brokerage activities in particular. These laws generally regulate the manner in which lending, lending-related and real estate brokerage activities are marketed or made available, including advertising and other consumer disclosures, payments for services and record keeping requirements; these laws include the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ("RESPA"), the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and various state laws. In addition, state laws often restrict the amount of interest and fees that may be charged by a lender or mortgage broker, or otherwise regulate the manner in which lenders or mortgage brokers operate or advertise. Furthermore, Congress, many state legislatures and state agencies are proposing, or have recently implemented, additional restrictions on mortgage lending practices. Compliance with these new requirements may render it more difficult to operate or may raise our internal costs. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approval status, termination of contracts without compensation, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. While we believe that our businesses have been structured in such a way so as to comply with existing and new laws, the relevant regulatory authorities may take a contrary position or future legislation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most states require licenses to solicit, broker or make loans secured by residential mortgages and other consumer loans to residents of those states, as well as to operate real estate referral and brokerage services, and in many cases require the licensure or registration of individual employees engaged in aspects of these businesses. In 2008, Congress mandated that all states adopt certain minimum standards for the licensing of individuals involved in mortgage lending or loan brokering, and many state legislatures and state agencies are in the process of adopting or implementing additional licensing, continuing education, and similar requirements on mortgage lenders, brokers and their employees. Compliance with these new requirements may render it more difficult to operate or may raise our internal costs. While our businesses have endeavored to comply with applicable requirements, the application of these requirements to persons operating online is not always clear. Moreover, any of the licenses or rights currently held by our businesses or our employees may be revoked prior to, or may not be renewed upon, their expiration. In addition, our businesses or our employees may not be granted new licenses or rights for which they may be required to apply from time to time in the future. 13 Table of Contents Likewise, states or municipalities may adopt statutes or regulations making it unattractive, impracticable, or infeasible for our businesses to continue to conduct business in that jurisdiction. The withdrawal from any jurisdiction due to emerging legal requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are also subject to various state, federal and/or local laws, rules and regulations that regulate the amount and nature of fees that may be charged for transactions and incentives, such as rebates, that may be offered to consumers by our businesses, as well as the manner in which these businesses may offer, advertise or promote transactions. For example, RESPA generally prohibits the payment or receipt of referral fees and fee shares or splits in connection with residential mortgage loan transactions, subject to certain exceptions. The applicability of referral fee and fee sharing prohibitions to lenders and real estate providers, including online networks, may have the effect of reducing the types and amounts of fees that may be charged or paid in connection with real estate-secured loan offerings or activities, including mortgage brokerage, lending and real estate brokerage services, or otherwise limiting the ability to conduct marketing and referral activities. Although we believe that our businesses have been structured in such a way so as to comply with RESPA, the relevant regulatory agency may take a contrary position. Our Real Estate business is subject to rules and regulations of various real estate boards, as well as the rules of various non-governmental associations and organizations, including but, not limited to, local and regional Multiple Listing Services that provide real estate listing data. Our Real Estate business is dependent on real estate listing data made available through Multiple Listing Services and other sources. While we believe that our Real Estate business is structured to comply with these rules and regulations, the relevant organization may take a contrary position, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some states have regulations that prohibit real estate brokers from providing consumers with rebates or other incentives in connection with real estate transactions. Additional states could promulgate similar regulations or interpret existing regulations in a way that limits the ability of online networks to offer consumer incentives in connection with real estate transactions, thereby limiting the attractiveness of real estate brokerage activities offered by our Real Estate business. Federal, state and in some instances, local, laws also prohibit unfair and deceptive sales practices generally. While we have adopted appropriate policies and procedures to address these requirements (such as appropriate consumer disclosures and call scripting, call monitoring, and other quality assurance and compliance measures), employees do not always comply with policies and procedures, and therefore, liability and brand injury could result from such employee misconduct. As employers, our businesses are subject to federal and state employment laws. In particular, the Fair Labor Standards Act and California wage and hour laws govern the treatment of "non-exempt" employees, which may include loan officers, underwriters, and loan processors at Home Loan Center, Inc. Failure to comply with applicable employment laws may result in, among other things, administrative fines, class action lawsuits, damages awards and injunctions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Parties through which our businesses conduct business similarly may be subject to federal and state regulation. These parties typically act as independent contractors and not as agents in their solicitations and transactions with consumers. Consequently, we cannot ensure that these entities will comply with applicable laws and regulations at all times. Failure on the part of a lender, secondary market purchaser, real estate professional, website operator or other third party to comply with these laws or regulations could result in, among other things, claims of vicarious liability or a negative impact on the reputation of Tree.com and its businesses. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Compliance and Changing Laws, Rules and Regulations—Passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related legislative or executive actions may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In July 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which contains a comprehensive set of provisions designed to govern the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, imposing additional costs on us, limiting fees we can charge, impacting the value of our assets, or otherwise adversely affecting our businesses. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to regulate consumer financial services and products, including credit, savings and payment products. The effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations could be significant, depending upon final implementing regulations, the actions of our competitors and the behavior of other marketplace participants. In addition, we may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous regulations that are required to be issued under it. In light of recent conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, as well as a heightened regulatory and Congressional focus on consumer lending, regulators have increased their scrutiny of the financial services industry, the result of which has included new regulations and guidance. We are unable to predict the long-term impact of this enhanced scrutiny. We are also unable to predict whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called "golden parachute" payments, and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company's proxy materials. However, if the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing rules and regulations cause a material increase in our compliance and operating costs or materially inhibit our operations, they may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Third Party Compliance—If Network Lenders fail to produce required documents for examination by, or other affiliated parties fail to make certain filings with, state regulators, Tree.com may be subject to fines, forfeitures and the revocation of required licenses. Some of the states in which our businesses maintain licenses require them to collect various loan documents from Network Lenders and produce these documents for examination by state regulators. While Network Lenders are contractually obligated to provide these documents upon request, these measures may be insufficient. Failure to produce required documents for examination could result in fines, as well as the revocation of our businesses' licenses to operate in key states, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulations promulgated by some states may impose compliance obligations on directors, executive officers, large customers and any person who acquires a certain percentage (for example, 10% or more) of our common stock, including requiring such persons to periodically file financial and other personal and business information with state regulators. If any such person refuses or fails to comply with these requirements, our businesses may be unable to obtain a license, and existing licensing arrangements may be jeopardized. The inability to obtain, or the loss of, required licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Maintenance of Systems and Infrastructure—Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructures. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructures may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructures, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and distribution and fulfillment facilities. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems and infrastructures may adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent our businesses from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems and infrastructures, our businesses, our affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructures, could impair the ability of our businesses to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, unauthorized intrusions or computer viruses, and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent our businesses from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While our businesses have backup systems for certain aspects of their operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Claims could also be made against us for other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized purposes or identity theft, which could result in litigation and financial liabilities, as well as administrative action from governmental authorities. Security breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, undetected fraud, inadvertent violations of company policies or procedures or other developments could result in a compromise of information or a breach of the technology and security processes that are used to protect consumer transaction data. As a result, current security measures may not prevent any or all security breaches. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with which we are affiliated or otherwise conduct business online. Any publicized security problems affecting our businesses and/or those of third parties may discourage consumers from doing business with us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Internal Controls—We have identified a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and we may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. We have identified a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting relating to ineffective controls over the application and monitoring of accounting for income taxes. Specifically, we did not have controls designed and in place to ensure effective oversight of the work performed by, and the accuracy of, financial information provided by third party tax advisors. Until remediated, this material weakness could result in a misstatement in tax-related accounts that could result in a material misstatement to our interim or annual consolidated financial statements and disclosures that may not be prevented or detected. 16 Table of Contents We are currently in the process of addressing and remediating the deficiencies that gave rise to this material weakness. Since the material weakness was identified, we have undertaken an evaluation of our available resources to provide effective oversight of the work performed by our third party tax advisors and are in the process of identifying necessary changes to our processes as required. Additionally, we are evaluating the resources available and provided to us by the third party tax advisors and identifying changes as required. We note that a system of procedures and controls, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all systems of procedures and controls, no evaluation can provide absolute assurance that all control issues have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. The design of any system of procedures and controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our systems of procedures and controls, as we further develop and enhance them, may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective system of procedures and controls, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected and could be material and require a restatement of our financial statements. If we are unable to maintain appropriate internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, we may experience material post-closing adjustments in future financial statements, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with the requirements of the SEC or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common shares, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements or by disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. We cannot provide assurance that our remediation measures will be completed or become effective by any given date. Further and continued determinations that there are significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. Privacy—The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In the processing of consumer transactions, our businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us and our businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our businesses may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by these businesses. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of these businesses, discourage potential users from our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intellectual Property—We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including patents, service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property (as applicable), as critical to our success. Our businesses also rely heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other components that make up their products and services. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use trade secrets or copyrighted intellectual property without authorization which, if discovered, might require legal action to correct. In addition, third parties may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar intellectual properties. We have generally registered and continue to apply to register, or secure by contract when appropriate, our principal trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve and register domain names when and where we deem appropriate. We generally consider the protection of our trademarks to be important for purposes of brand maintenance and reputation. While we vigorously protect our trademarks, service marks and domain names, effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available, and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in a meaningful manner or challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit our ability to control marketing on or through the Internet using our various domain names or otherwise, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our businesses have been granted patents and/or have patent applications pending with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and/or various foreign patent authorities for various proprietary technologies and other inventions. We consider applying for patents or for other appropriate statutory protection when we develop valuable new or improved proprietary technologies or inventions are identified, and will continue to consider the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect future proprietary technologies and inventions as circumstances may warrant. The status of any patent involves complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Accordingly, any patent application filed may not result in a patent being issued or existing or future patents may not be adjudicated valid by a court or be afforded adequate protection against competitors with similar technology. In addition, third parties may create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents that we own. Likewise, the issuance of a patent to us does not mean that our processes or inventions will be found not to infringe upon patents or other rights previously issued to third parties. 18 Table of Contents From time to time, in the ordinary course of business we are subjected to legal proceedings and claims, or threatened legal proceedings or claims, including allegations of infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive, as evidenced by the patent litigation settlements the Company announced in the first quarter of 2010. Risk Management—Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating our risk of loss. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models that we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. Acquisitions and Investments—Acquisitions or strategic investments that we pursue may not be successful and could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may consider or undertake strategic acquisitions of, or material investments in, businesses, products, portfolios of loans or technologies, such as our recent agreement to acquire certain assets of SurePoint Lending. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or even if we do identify suitable candidates, they may be difficult to finance, expensive to fund and there is no guarantee that we can obtain any necessary regulatory approvals or complete the transactions on terms that are favorable to us. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash, it would reduce our cash balances and regulatory capital, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition; similarly, if the purchase price is paid with our stock, it would be dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, we may assume liabilities associated with a business acquisition or investment, including unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered at the time of the transaction, and the repayment of those liabilities may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate the personnel, operations, businesses, products, or technologies of an acquisition or investment. Integration may be particularly challenging if we enter into a line of business in which we have limited experience and the business operates in a difficult legal, regulatory or competitive environment. We may find that we do not have adequate operations or expertise to manage the new business. The integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management's time and resources from our core business, which could impair our relationships with our current employees, customers and strategic partners and disrupt our operations. Acquisitions and investments also may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or customers. If we fail to integrate acquisitions or investments or realize the expected benefits, we may lose the return on these acquisitions or investments or incur additional transaction costs and our business and financial condition may be harmed as a result. 19 Table of Contents The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. The market price for our common stock has been volatile since our spin-off. This volatility has likely been exacerbated by recent market instability. The market price for our common stock could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including the risks identified herein or reasons unrelated to our performance. These factors may result in short or long-term negative pressure on the value of our common stock. If we fail to meet the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market and do not take corrective action as the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department may require, trading in our securities may be halted and we may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. As an issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we must comply with the Marketplace Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market in order to maintain that listing. NASDAQ-listed companies that do not maintain compliance with these rules may have trading in their stock halted and, if they do not regain compliance as required by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department, may be delisted. On November 1, 2010, we notified the Listings Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ Stock Market of Steven Ozonian's resignation from the Company's Board of Directors, effective November 1, 2010, and the resulting non-compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5605 ("Rule 5605"), which requires that a majority of the Company's Board of Directors be comprised of independent members. On November 3, 2010, we received notice from NASDAQ advising that, as a result of Mr. Ozonian's resignation from the Board of Directors, we were not in compliance with Rule 5605 and confirming that we were provided a cure period until the earlier of the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders or October 31, 2011 to regain compliance. The Company is reviewing alternative methods to regain compliance. The Company anticipates that it will regain compliance with Rule 5605 no later than June 8, 2011, the date of our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. A failure to regain compliance could result in the Company being delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all and could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 