ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on HSNi. There exist additional risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, and the market price for our shares could decline. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the actual results of HSNi to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of HSNi. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenues and profit margin are negatively influenced by economic conditions that impact consumer spending. If macroeconomic conditions do not improve or worsen, our business could be adversely affected. Retailers generally are particularly sensitive to adverse economic and business conditions, in particular to the extent they result in a loss of consumer confidence, rising unemployment and decreases in consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending. Our customers anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions. If macroeconomic conditions do not improve or worsen, our business could be adversely affected. We are not able to predict the timing of any recovery. 9 Table of Contents Our long-term success depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract new and retain existing customers in a cost-effective manner. In an effort to attract and retain customers, we engage in various marketing and merchandising initiatives, which involve the expenditure of considerable money and resources, particularly in the case of the production and distribution of HSN television programming and Cornerstone catalogs and, to a lesser but increasing extent, online advertising. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, certain of these initiatives, particularly in connection with the growth and maintenance of our brands generally, as well as in the continuing efforts of our businesses to increasingly engage customers through online channels. These initiatives, however, may not resonate with existing customers or consumers generally or may not be cost-effective. In addition, we believe that costs associated with the production and distribution of HSN television programming, paper and printing costs for Cornerstone catalogs and costs associated with online marketing, including search engine marketing (primarily the purchase of relevant keywords) are likely to increase in the foreseeable future and, if significant, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations to the extent that they do not result in corresponding increases in sales. We depend on relationships with pay television operators and adverse changes in these relationships could result in an interruption, material decrease or even the cessation of carriage of the HSN television networks. We are dependent upon the pay television operators with whom we enter into distribution and affiliation agreements to carry the HSN television networks. We currently have contracts with many local and national pay television operators to distribute HSN television programming. Some of HSN’s larger pay television operators include Comcast, DirecTV, Echostar/DISH and Time Warner. The two largest pay television operators represent over 40% of our subscribers. The cessation of carriage of the HSN television networks by a major pay television operator or a significant number of smaller pay television operators for a prolonged period of time could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that we will be able to continue to successfully manage the distribution process in the future, certain changes in distribution levels, as well as increases in commission rates and/or other fees payable for carriage, could occur notwithstanding these efforts. We typically seek to enter into long-term distribution and affiliation agreements with these major pay television operators; however, in some cases, renewals are not agreed upon prior to the expiration of a given agreement and the HSN television networks continue to be carried by the relevant pay television operator without an effective agreement in place. We currently provide service to approximately 48.1% of our total subscribers pursuant to month-to-month contracts or contracts that have expired. In addition, another 7.9% of our subscribers are represented by contracts that expire within one year. Renewal and negotiation processes with pay television operators are typically lengthy. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in negotiating renewals with all these operators or that the financial and other terms of renewal will be on acceptable terms. The failure to successfully renew or negotiate new distribution and affiliation agreements covering a material portion of these existing cable and satellite households on acceptable terms could adversely affect our growth, sales revenue and earnings. We depend on relationships with vendors, manufacturers and other third parties; any adverse changes in these relationships could result in a failure to meet customer expectations which could result in lost sales. We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of third party vendors, manufacturers and other sources pursuant to short- and long-term contracts and purchase orders. Our ability to identify and establish relationships with these parties, as well as access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner on acceptable terms and at acceptable costs, can be challenging. In particular, we purchase a significant amount of merchandise from vendors and manufacturers abroad and have experienced (and expect to continue to experience) increased costs 10 Table of Contents for goods sourced in these markets. We depend on the ability of vendors and manufacturers in the U.S. and abroad to produce and deliver goods that meet applicable quality standards, which is impacted by a number of factors not within the control of these parties, such as political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs, among others. In particular, Cornerstone is dependent, in significant part, upon independent, third party manufacturers to produce private label merchandise. Our failure to identify new vendors and manufacturers, maintain relationships with a significant number of existing vendors and manufacturers and/or access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner could cause us to miss customer delivery dates or delay scheduled promotions, which would result in the failure to meet customer expectations and could cause customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to source merchandise in sufficient quantities, which could result in lost sales. The unanticipated loss of certain larger vendors could negatively impact our sales and profitability on a short term basis. It is possible that one or more of our larger vendors could experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, or otherwise could elect to cease doing business with us. While we have periodically experienced the loss of a major vendor, if a number of our current larger vendors ceased doing business with us, this could materially and adversely impact our sales and profitability on a short term basis. The failure to secure suitable channel placement for the HSN television network programming would adversely affect our ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenue. We are dependent upon the continued ability of HSN to compete for television viewers. Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent, in substantial part, on the ability of HSN to secure suitable placement of the HSN television networks within a suitable programming tier at a low channel position. The advent of digital compression technologies and the adoption of digital cable has resulted in increased channel capacity, which together with other changing laws, rules and regulations regarding cable television ownership, impacts the ability of HSN to secure suitable channel placement. While increased channel capacity could provide a means through which the HSN television networks could be more widely distributed, it could also adversely affect our ability to attract television viewers to the television networks and a reduction in our growth rate to the extent it results in: • higher channel position placement for the HSN television networks; • placement of the HSN television networks in digital programming tiers, which generally have lower levels of television viewer penetration than basic or expanded basic programming tiers; • more competitors entering the marketplace; or • more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and time-shifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over broadband internet connections). If the HSN television networks are carried exclusively in a system on a digital programming tier, HSN will experience a reduction in revenue to the extent that the digital programming tier has less television viewer penetration than the basic or expanded basic programming tier. In addition, HSN may experience a further reduction in revenue due to increased television viewing audience fragmentation and to the extent that not all television sets within a digital cable home are equipped to receive television programming in a digital format. Our future success will also depend, in part, on the ability of HSN to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer elements of the HSN television networks via new technologies in a cost-effective manner that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. 11 Table of Contents The continued or permanent inability to broadcast the HSN television networks would result in lost customers and lost sales. Our success is dependent upon the continued ability of HSN to transmit the HSN television networks to broadcast and pay television operators from its satellite uplink facilities, which transmission is subject to the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) compliance. HSN has entered into two satellite transponder leases to provide for continued carriage of the HSN television networks on a replacement transponder and/or replacement satellite, as applicable, in the event of a failure of the transponder and/or satellite. Although we believe that every reasonable measure is being taken to ensure continued satellite transmission capability, termination or interruption of satellite transmissions may occur. The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In the processing of consumer transactions, we receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to online and other cyber security risks and cyber incidents, including security and data breaches and identity theft. To succeed, we must be able to provide for secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We have observed an increased number of cyber attacks that include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of our businesses, discourage potential users from trying our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Security and data breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security and data breaches and their consequences. We also face risks associated with security and data breaches affecting third parties with which we are affiliated or otherwise conduct business online. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructures may adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We use the internet, mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our customers. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructures, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and fulfillment facilities. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent our 12 Table of Contents businesses from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems and infrastructures, our businesses, our affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructures, could impair our ability to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. In addition, we have observed an increase in the number of cyber attacks that include gaining access to digital systems for purposes of corrupting data or causing operational disruption. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. Increased delivery costs could adversely impact our profits, particularly if we are unable to offset them by increasing prices without a detrimental effect on customer demand. We are impacted by increases in shipping rates charged by various shipping vendors relating to the procurement of merchandise from vendors and manufacturers, the shipment of merchandise to customers and the mailing of catalogs, which over the past few years have experienced volatility in comparison to historical levels. We currently expect that shipping and postal rates will continue to increase. In the case of deliveries to customers, we have negotiated favorable shipping rates, which increase at agreed upon levels over time, with one independent, third party shipping company pursuant to a long-term contract. If this relationship were to terminate or if the shipping company was unable to fulfill its obligations under the contract for any reason, we would have to work with other shipping companies to deliver merchandise to customers, which could be at less favorable rates and could cause a disruption in our business. Any increase in shipping rates and related fuel and other surcharges passed on to us by this or any other shipping company may adversely impact profits, given that we may not be able to pass these increased costs directly to customers or offset them by increasing prices without a detrimental effect on customer demand. We may not be able to accurately predict and/or respond in a timely manner to evolving customer preferences and trends and industry standards, which could result in excess inventory, related markdowns and lost sales. Our success depends, in significant part, on our ability to accurately predict, and respond in a timely manner to, changes in customer preferences and fashion, lifestyle and other trends and industry standards. While product mix and price points are continuously monitored and adjusted in an attempt to satisfy consumer demand and respond to changing economic and business conditions, we may not be successful in these efforts, and any sustained failure could result in excess inventory and related markdowns. In addition, the internet industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, frequent new service and product introductions and enhancements, as well as changing customer demands. If we are not able to adapt quickly enough and/or in a cost-effective manner to these changes it could result in lost sales. We could be subject to additional sales tax liability, including liability for past sales. U.S. Supreme Court decisions generally restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have adopted or are considering initiatives that would impose sales and use tax collection obligations arising from digital-based transactions. If these initiatives are successful, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon digital 13 Table of Contents commerce could create administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on all digital competitors and decrease our future sales. In addition, certain states and local jurisdictions have begun to collect sales and use tax from businesses without an obvious physical presence in that state. The continuation of this trend by states for which we do not currently collect taxes could raise substantial tax liabilities, decrease our ability to compete and otherwise harm our business. We are currently the subject of a consent order issued by the FTC and violation of this consent order could result in significant civil penalties and/or an injunction enjoining HSN from engaging in prohibited activities, among other penalties or remedies. In October 1996, HSN became subject to a consent order issued by the FTC which terminates on the later of April 15, 2019, or 20 years from the most recent date that the United States or the FTC files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation thereunder. Pursuant to this consent order, HSNi (including its subsidiaries and affiliates) is prohibited from making claims for specified categories of products, including claims that a given product can cure, treat or prevent any disease or have an effect on the structure or function of the human body, unless it has competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate such claims. Violation of this consent order may result in the imposition of significant civil penalties for non-compliance and related redress to consumers and/or the issuance of an injunction enjoining us from engaging in prohibited activities. The FTC periodically investigates our business and operations on an ongoing basis for purposes of determining its compliance with the consent order. We may be subject to claims for representations made in connection with the sale and promotion of merchandise or for harm experienced by customers who purchase merchandise from us. The manner in which we sell and promote merchandise and related claims and representations made in connection with these efforts is regulated by federal, state and local law. We may be exposed to potential liability from claims by purchasers or from federal, state and local regulators and law enforcement agencies, including, but not limited to, for personal injury, product safety, wrongful death and damage to personal property relating to merchandise sold and misrepresentation of merchandise features and benefits. In certain instances, we have the right to seek indemnification for related liabilities from our vendors and may require such vendors to carry minimum levels of product liability and errors and omissions insurance. These vendors, however, may be unable to obtain suitable coverage or maintain this coverage on acceptable terms, or this insurance may provide inadequate coverage against all potential claims or may not even be available with respect to a particular claim. Failure to effectively manage our Flexpay program could result in unplanned losses. HSN offers Flexpay, pursuant to which customers may pay for certain merchandise in two to six interest-free, monthly credit or debit card payments. We maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. While actual losses due to the inability of customers to make required payments have historically been within estimates, we may not continue to experience these losses at the same rate as we have historically or our actual losses in any given period may exceed related estimates. As Flexpay usage grows, we may experience these losses at greater rates, which will require us to maintain greater allowances for doubtful accounts of estimated losses than we have historically. We may fail to protect our intellectual property rights within the full scope and manner available to us under applicable law or statute or may be accused of infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including patents, service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights and trade secrets, as critical to our success. We rely heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other systemic components that are necessary to manage and support our business operations. 14 Table of Contents From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in a meaningful manner or challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit our ability to control marketing on or through the internet using our various domain names or otherwise, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights could subject us to additional liabilities. We market and provide a broad range of merchandise through television, online catalogs and other channels. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding product safety, consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities, as well as laws and regulations applicable to the internet and businesses engaged in digital commerce, such as those regulating the sending of unsolicited, commercial electronic mail. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs, subject us to additional liabilities and/or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. Finally, certain of these regulations impact the marketing efforts of our businesses and brands Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments could limit our flexibility to respond to current market conditions or otherwise restrict our business activities. The existence of, and limitations on the availability of our debt could have important consequences. The existence of debt could, among other things: • require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; • limit our ability to use cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; or • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facilities, are at variable interest rates. Limitations imposed as a part of the debt, such as the availability of credit and the existence of restrictive covenants may, among other things, make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and/or limit our ability to respond to business opportunities. The credit agreement relating to our credit facility and indenture with respect to the senior notes do include restrictive covenants, financial and non-financial. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The shareholders’ rights plan adopted by the Board of Directors in December 2008 may inhibit takeovers that would otherwise be beneficial to shareholders. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our Board of Directors approved the creation of a Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, adopted a shareholders’ rights plan and declared a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock held by our shareholders. Initially, these rights, which trade with the shares of our common stock, are not exercisable. Under the rights plan, these rights will be exercisable if a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer for 15% or more of our common stock (except for certain grandfathered persons to which higher thresholds apply). If the rights become exercisable, each right will permit the holder, other than the “acquiring person,” to purchase from us shares of common stock at a 50% discount to the then prevailing market price. As a result, the rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an “acquiring person” on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. The existence of these rights may prevent, discourage or delay an acquisition of us, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and may face negative pressure. Our stock price has experienced, and could continue to experience in the future, substantial volatility as a result of many factors, including persistent adverse macroeconomic conditions, broad market fluctuations and public perception of the prospects for the retail industry. Our failure to meet market expectations would also likely result in a decline in the market price of our stock. These and other factors may result in short-term or long-term negative pressure on the value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 