Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information describes certain significant risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. You should take these risks into account in evaluating us. This section does not describe all risks applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of known material risks that are specific to the company. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of such risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially and could differ materially from the plans and other forward-looking statements included in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 26 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere herein. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON SHARES The dividend, liquidation and redemption rights of the holders of our Series B Senior Convertible Preferred Shares may adversely affect our financial position and the rights of the holders of our common shares. The Company has Series B Senior Convertible Preferred Shares, or the Series B Preferred Shares, outstanding. The Forbes Group will have the obligation to pay to the holders of its Series B Preferred Shares quarterly dividends of five percent per annum of the original issue price, payable quarterly in cash or in-kind. No dividends may be paid to holders of common shares while accumulated dividends remain unpaid on the Series B Preferred Shares. Currently, dividends for the quarterly periods ended November 28, 2010 and February 28, 2011 have not been paid on the Series B Preferred Shares. Therefore, the Company is prohibited at this time from issuing dividends on its common shares. The Company has not paid this dividend in cash due to certain restrictions in the Company’s indentures and has not paid this dividend in-kind because the Toronto Stock Exchange has taken the position that, in light of the market price of the Company’s common shares, the issuance of additional Series B Preferred Shares as a dividend in-kind would violate Toronto Stock Exchange rules regarding the issuance of discounted shares, unless the Company receives shareholder approval for such an issuance. The Company intends to seek shareholder approval for a pool of Series B Preferred Shares to be issued as in-kind dividends for this particular quarterly period and for future quarterly periods. Should the shareholders not approve these dividend payments in-kind, as contemplated under the Certificate of Designation of the Series B Senior Convertible Preferred Shares, the Company could be required to delist from the Toronto Stock Exchange. Further, the Company is required, at the seventh anniversary of the issuance of the Series B Preferred Shares on May 28, 2017, to redeem any such outstanding shares at their original issue price, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends, to be paid, at the election of the Company, in cash or common shares. The payment of the redemption price in cash is expected to result in reduced capital resources available to the Company. The payment of the redemption price in common shares would directly dilute the common shareholders. The payment of dividends in-kind would also have a dilutive effect on the common shareholders (as any Series B Preferred Shares issued as dividends will be themselves convertible into common shares). In the event that the Company is liquidated while Series B Preferred Shares are outstanding, holders of the Series B Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive a preferred liquidation distribution, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends, before holders of common shares receive any distributions. Holders of the Series B Preferred Shares have certain voting and other rights that may adversely affect holders of our common shares, and the holders of our Series B Preferred Shares may have different interests from, and vote their shares in a manner deemed adverse to, holders of our common shares. As mentioned in the preceding risk factor, the Company has not paid a dividend on its Series B Preferred Shares for the quarterly periods ended November 28, 2010 and February 28, 2011. In the event that we fail to pay dividends, in cash or in-kind, on the Series B Preferred Shares for an aggregate of at least eight quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), the holders of the Series B Preferred Shares will be entitled to vote at any meeting of the shareholders with the holders of the common shares and to cast the number of votes equal to the number of whole common shares into which the Series B Preferred Shares held by such holders are then convertible. If the holders of the current Series B Preferred Shares were able to vote pursuant to this provision at this time or converted the Series B Preferred Shares into common shares, we believe that those holders would be entitled to an aggregate of 15,005,799 votes resulting from their ownership of Series B Preferred Shares. This together with common shares already held by these shareholders (as reported to the Company by such shareholders), would entitle these shareholders to just under 20%, in the aggregate, of the voting power of the Company. Further, the holders of Series B Preferred Shares may have certain voting rights with respect to the approval of amendments to the organizational documents of the Company or certain transactions between the Company and affiliate shareholders. The holders of Series B Preferred Shares may have different interests from the holders of our common shares and could vote their shares in a manner deemed adverse to the holders of common shares. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS The industry in which we operate is highly volatile, and there can be no assurance that demand for our services will continue to improve from previous depressed levels. The demand, pricing and terms for oilfield services in our existing or future service areas largely depend upon the level of exploration and development activity for both crude oil and natural gas in the United States. Oil and natural gas industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including oil and natural gas prices, expectations about future oil and natural gas prices, levels of consumer demand, the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, the expected rates of current production, the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity, weather conditions, political, regulatory and economic conditions, and the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise equity capital or debt financing. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In the fourth quarter 2008 and during 2009, the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry in the United States experienced a severe downturn. The industry decline resulted in the reduction of oil and natural gas prices. Although oil prices and our utilization trends improved during 2010, there can be no assurance that depressed natural gas prices will improve or that the current improving trend in oil prices or our utilization will continue. We expect that a continuation of the recent severe reduction in natural gas prices or a reduction in oil prices would have a negative effect on oil and natural gas production levels and therefore affect the demand for drilling and well services by oil and natural gas companies. Any addition to, or elimination or curtailment of, government incentives for companies involved in the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas could have a significant effect on the oilfield services industry in the United States. Lower oil and natural gas prices could also cause our customers to seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor our services contracts. It could affect the fair market value of our equipment fleet which, under specific circumstances, in turn could trigger a write down of our assets for accounting purposes. Lower oil and natural gas prices could also affect our ability to retain skilled oilfield services personnel and our ability to obtain access to capital to fund and grow our business. A reversal in the current trend of improving industry activity and pricing at current levels could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the global financial markets and the continuing worldwide economic downturn. Our future results may be impacted by the continuing worldwide economic downturn, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation, or other adverse economic conditions that may negatively affect us or parties with whom we do business resulting in their non-payment or inability to perform obligations owed to us such as the failure of customers to honor their commitments, or the failure of major suppliers to complete orders. Additionally, credit market conditions may change slowing our collection efforts as customers may experience increased difficulty in obtaining requisite financing, potentially leading to lost revenue and higher than normal accounts receivable. This could result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. The current global economic environment may adversely impact our ability to issue additional debt. A continuation of the economic uncertainty may cause institutional investors to respond to their customers by increasing interest rates, enacting tighter lending standards or refusing to refinance existing debt upon maturity or on terms similar to expiring debt. Even with the net proceeds of the December 2009 common equity offering and our May 2010 preferred equity offering, we may require additional capital in the future. However, due to the above listed factors, we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available if needed and, to the extent required, on acceptable terms. Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business may be adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. We depend on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Current low natural gas prices, a decline in oil prices and global economic uncertainty may reduce the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures and may curtail spending thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the consequent impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling and workover activity by some of our customers. Any such reduction may cause a decline in the demand for our services or adversely affect the price of our services. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for us to service declines. During 2009, adverse changes in capital markets caused a number of oil and natural gas producers to announce reductions in capital budgets for future periods. In the fourth quarter of 2009 and in 2010, several of these producers announced increased capital budgets relative to their lows in mid-2009. Even so, limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause these and other oil and natural gas producers to limit capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices remain at historically high levels. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements These same economic factors impact our customers’ ability to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis. During 2009, this impacted a significant number of our customers resulting in several million dollars in uncollectable accounts receivable. While the severity of the negative financial impact of the industry downturn has subsided, there can be no assurances that another slowdown or downturn may not occur creating additional significant levels of uncollectable accounts receivable. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. As of December 31, 2010, our long-term debt, including current portions, was $219.4 million. In the event the current industry upward trend reverses and we experience a decline in activity as we experienced in 2009, our level of indebtedness may adversely affect operations and limit our growth. Our level of indebtedness may affect our operations in several ways, including the following: • by increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • due to the fact that the covenants that are contained in the indentures governing our indebtedness limit our ability to borrow funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends, make certain investments and make certain capital expenditures; • due to the fact that any failure to comply with the covenants of our indentures (including failure to make the required interest payments) could result in an event of default, which could result in some or all of our indebtedness under our indentures becoming immediately due and payable; and • due to the fact that our level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. These restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and the ability to satisfy the obligations under our indentures. Further, due to cross-default provisions in the indenture governing our 11% senior secured notes, or Second Priority Notes, and the indenture governing our first lien floating rate notes, or First Priority Notes, a default and acceleration of outstanding debt under one indenture would result in the default and possible acceleration of outstanding debt under our other indenture. Accordingly, an event of default could result in all or a portion of our outstanding debt under our indentures becoming immediately due and payable. If this occurred, we might not be able to obtain waivers or secure alternative financing to satisfy all of our obligations simultaneously which might even force us to seek bankruptcy protection. Impairment of our long-term assets may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We evaluate our long-term assets including property, equipment, and identifiable intangible assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. We use estimated future cash flows in assessing recoverability of our long-lived assets. The cash flow projections are based on our current estimates and judgmental assessments. We perform this assessment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the net assets may not be recoverable due to various external or internal factors, termed a “triggering event.” Based on our evaluation for the year ended December 31, 2010, no impairment was recorded. We may be unable to maintain pricing on our core services. As a result of pressures stemming from deteriorating market conditions and falling commodity prices, we entered 2009 with rapidly dropping pricing. Although pricing has increased in 2010 and the first two months of 2011, there can be no assurances that we can maintain these increases in the event of an industry decline such as the one experienced in 2009. We have and will likely continue to face pricing pressure from our customers and our competitors. The inability to maintain prices at the current levels would have a material negative impact on our financial position, operating results, and cash flows. Industry capacity may adversely affect our business. As a result of the worldwide economic downturn and decline in U.S. onshore exploration and production activities experienced in 2008 and 2009, and in spite of the improving conditions experienced in 2010, demand in the industry is much lower than in the past which also means that neither we nor our competitors are fully utilizing our respective rig fleets and related equipment. Lower utilization of our fleet has led to reduced pricing for our services from historical levels. Capacity that exceeds current demand in the industry has further exacerbated the pricing pressure for our services. In light of such conditions, the excess capacity could cause us to experience continued pressure on the pricing for our services and our utilization. This could have a material negative impact on our financial position, operating results, and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive and we compete with a substantial number of companies, some of which have greater technical and financial resources than we have. Our four largest competitors are Basic Energy Services, Inc., Complete Production Services, Inc., Key Energy Services Inc. and Nabors Industries Ltd. Our ability to generate revenues and earnings depends primarily upon our ability to win bids in competitive bidding processes and to perform awarded projects within estimated times and costs. There can be no assurance that competitors will not substantially increase the resources devoted to the development and marketing of products and services that compete with ours, or that new or existing competitors will not enter the various markets in which we are active. In certain aspects of our business, we also compete with a number of small and medium-sized companies that, like us, have certain competitive advantages such as low overhead costs and specialized regional strengths. In addition, reduced levels of activity in the oil and natural gas industry could intensify competition and the pressure on competitive pricing and may result in lower revenues or margins to us. The indentures governing the Second Priority Notes and the First Priority Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict or limit our ability to operate our business. The indentures governing the Second Priority Notes and the First Priority Notes contain covenants that restrict or limit our ability to take various actions, such as • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness or issuing disqualified capital stock; • creating or incurring liens; • engaging in business other than our current business and reasonably related extensions thereof; • making loans and investments; • paying certain dividends, distributions, redeeming subordinated indebtedness or making other restricted payments; • incurring dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; • transferring or selling assets; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • making capital expenditures; • entering into sale/lease-back transactions; • consummating a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and • moving assets outside of the United States. The restrictions contained in the indentures could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. We are subject to the risk of technological obsolescence. We anticipate that our ability to maintain our current business and win new business will depend upon continuous improvements in operating equipment, among other things. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts in this regard or that we will have the resources available to continue to support this need to have our equipment remain technologically up to date and competitive. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. No assurances can be given that competitors will not achieve technological advantages over us. We are highly dependent on certain of our officers and key employees. Our success is dependent upon our key management, technical and field personnel, especially John E. Crisp, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Charles C. Forbes, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Any loss of the services of any one of such officers or a sufficient number of other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our ability to expand our services is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The ability to secure the services of additional personnel may be constrained in times of strong industry activity. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our customer base is concentrated within the oil and natural gas production industry and loss of a significant customer could cause our revenue to decline substantially. We served in excess of 1,115 and 985 customers for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For those same time period, our largest customer comprised approximately 13.7% and 11.7%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues, our five largest customers comprised approximately 35.9% and 37.7%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues, and our top ten customers comprised approximately 51.9% and 49.8%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. These customers currently represent a large portion of our consolidated revenues. The loss of our top customer or of several of our top customers would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We may be able to replace customers lost with other customers, but there can be no assurance that lost revenues could be replaced in a timely manner, with the same margins or at all. We expect that we will continue to incur significant costs as a result of being obligated to comply with Exchange Act reporting requirements, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Canadian reporting requirements and indenture covenants and that our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance matters. Under our indenture, we are required to comply with several covenants, including requirements to maintain liens on collateral, deliver certain opinions and certificates, and file reports under the Exchange Act with the SEC. We plan on registering our common stock under Section 12 of the Exchange Act in the near future. As a result of this we expect that we will have increased reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls and corporate governance practices. We are also required to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to public companies in Canada and to file reports with the Canadian securities administrators. Accordingly, we expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We anticipate that our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time and resources to comply with these requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure. We have performed and will perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our future testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in addition to the one discussed below that was revealed in our most recent evaluation. We expect to continue to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance in particular with Section 404. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies possible future deficiencies in our internal controls in addition to the ones discussed below that are deemed to be material weaknesses or if we fail to adequately address existing and future deficiencies, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. We face several risks relating to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation of the Forbes Group’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, we identified control deficiencies that constitute a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. The following material weakness was present at December 31, 2010. • We did not design or maintain effective controls over the billing process to ensure timely recognition of revenue. Specifically, we identified field tickets, which represented completed but unbilled revenue that had not been entered resulting in a post-closing adjustment. This control deficiency could result in a future material misstatement to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, we have determined that the above control deficiency represents a material weakness. Internal control deficiencies could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, our controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements. We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will remediate the material weakness identified or that any additional material weaknesses and significant deficiencies or restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. Please see Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” on page 83 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain measures we have undertaken to remediate our deficiencies. We engage in transactions with related parties and such transactions present possible conflicts of interest that could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company has entered into a significant number of transactions with related parties. The details of certain of these transactions are set forth in Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Related party transactions create the possibility of conflicts of interest with regard to the Company’s management. Such a conflict could cause an individual in the Company’s management to seek to advance his or her economic interests above those of the Company. Further, the appearance of conflicts of interest created by related party transactions could impair the confidence of our investors. The board of directors regularly reviews these transactions and, as required by the Company’s indentures, seeks the approval of the disinterested board members when such a transaction exceeds an aggregate consideration of $500,000 and an opinion regarding the fairness of such transaction from an outside firm when such a transaction exceeds an aggregate consideration of $2.5 million. Notwithstanding this, it is possible that a conflict of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Activity in the oilfield services industry is seasonal and may affect our revenues during certain periods. Our operations are impacted by seasonal factors. Historically, our business has been negatively impacted during the winter months due to inclement weather, fewer daylight hours and holidays. Our well servicing rigs are mobile, and we operate a significant number of oilfield vehicles. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, we may not be able to move our equipment between locations, thereby reducing our ability to generate rig or truck hours. In addition, the majority of our well servicing rigs work only during daylight hours. In the winter months when daylight time becomes shorter, this reduces the amount of time that the well servicing rigs can work and therefore has a negative impact on total hours worked. Finally, we historically have experienced significant slowdown during the Thanksgiving and Christmas holiday seasons. We rely heavily on our suppliers and do not maintain written agreements with any such suppliers. Our ability to compete and grow will be dependent on our access to equipment, including well servicing rigs, parts and components, among other things, at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. We do not maintain written agreements with any of our suppliers (other than operating leases for certain equipment), and we are, therefore, dependent on the relationships we maintain with them. Failure of suppliers to deliver such equipment, parts and components at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner would be detrimental to our ability to maintain existing customers and obtain new customers. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining our required supply of such items. We rely heavily on two suppliers, Agri-Empresa, Inc. and Tetra Technologies, Inc., for potassium chloride, a principal raw material that is critical for our operations. While the materials are generally available, if we were to have a problem sourcing raw materials or transporting these materials from one of these two vendors, our ability to provide some of our services could be limited. Alternate suppliers exist for all other raw materials. The source and supply of materials has been consistent in the past, however, in periods of high industry activity, periodic shortages of certain materials have been experienced and costs have been affected. We do not have contracts with, but we do maintain relationships with, a number of suppliers in an attempt to mitigate this risk. However, if current or future suppliers are unable to provide the necessary raw materials, or otherwise fail to deliver products in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of services to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We do not maintain written agreements with respect to some of our salt water disposal wells. Our ability to continue to provide well maintenance services depends on our continued access to salt water disposal wells. Four of our 15 salt water disposal wells are located on the premises of third parties who have not entered into a written lease with us. We do not maintain written surface leases or right of way agreements with these third parties and we are, therefore, dependent on the relationships we maintain with them. Failure to maintain relationships with these third parties could impair our ability to access and maintain the applicable salt water disposal wells and any well servicing equipment located on their property. If that occurred, we would increase the levels of fluid injection at our remaining salt water disposal wells. However, our permits to inject fluid into the salt water disposal wells is subject to maximum pressure limitations and if multiple salt water disposal wells became unavailable, this might adversely impact our operations. We extend credit to our customers which presents a risk of non-payment. A substantial portion of our accounts receivable are with customers involved in the oil and natural gas industry, whose revenues may be affected by fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. Collection of these receivables could be influenced by economic factors affecting this industry. We do not have significant exposure to any individual customer other than our top customer, PEMEX, which accounted for approximately 13.7% and 11.7% (or $45.9 million and $25.1 million) of the revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Collection exposure is increased as this customer is a foreign entity owned by a foreign government which limits our collection options. The remaining top five customers are all U.S. customers and amounted to 22.1% and 26.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to environmental liability. Our business operations and ownership of real property are subject to numerous United States and Mexican federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to emissions to air, discharges to water, treatment, storage and disposal of regulated materials, and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. The nature of our business, including operations at our current and former facilities by prior owners, lessors or operators, exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and disposal of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. Environmental laws and regulations may have a significant effect on the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials as well as the costs of the transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of wastes. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental and worker health and safety requirements. However, we may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations or liabilities arising under these laws and regulations. Although we may have the benefit of insurance maintained by our customers or by other third parties or by us such insurances may not cover every expense. Further, we may become liable for damages against which we cannot adequately insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of high costs or other reasons. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our customers are subject to similar environmental laws and regulations, as well as limits on emissions to the air and discharges into surface and sub-surface waters. Although regulatory developments that may occur in subsequent years could have the effect of reducing industry activity, we cannot predict the nature of any new restrictions or regulations that may be imposed. We may be required to increase operating expenses or capital expenditures in order to comply with any new restrictions or regulations. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services. The U.S. Congress has been considering legislation to reduce the emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases,” including carbon dioxide and methane, which according to certain scientific studies, might contribute to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, or ACESA, which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of these greenhouse gases. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These allowances would be expected to increase significantly in cost over time. ACESA would impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil and natural gas. The U.S. Senate began work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and President Obama has indicated his support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not currently possible to predict when and if the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address the emission of greenhouse gases could adversely affect demand for our services by reducing demand for the oil and natural gas produced by our customers. Such legislation could also increase our operating costs. Additionally, on December 7, 2009, the EPA announced its finding that greenhouse gas emissions presented an endangerment to human health and the environment. These findings allow the EPA to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In September 2009, the EPA proposed regulations in anticipation of finalizing its endangerment finding that would require a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and, could also trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. On October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA issued regulations that expanded reporting requirements to include onshore and offshore petroleum and natural gas production; natural gas processing, distribution and storage; and facilities that inject and store carbon dioxide underground for the purposes of geologic sequestration or enhanced oil and gas recovery. Reporting requirements under these new regulations are mandatory beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations and the equipment and operations of our customers could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for crude oil and natural gas produced by our customers, which would adversely affect demand for our services. The potential increase in the costs of our operations and the operations of our customers could include additional costs to operate and maintain equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased operating costs in the rates we charge for our services, any recovery of such costs is uncertain. Even if such legislation is not adopted at the national level, a number of states, acting either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. While no such legislation is currently being considered in Texas, many of our customers operate nationally and would be adversely affected by the requirements of such legislation. Any one of these climate change regulatory and legislative initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Significant physical effects of climatic change, if they should occur, have the potential to damage oil and natural gas facilities, disrupt production activities and could cause us or our customers to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In an interpretative guidance on climate change disclosures, the SEC indicates that climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations or the assets and operations of our customers. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result should the potential physical effects of climate change occur. Unrecovered damages and losses incurred by our customers could result in decreased demand for our services. Increasing trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively affect our results of operations. In connection with the services we provide, we operate as a motor carrier and therefore are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation, or U.S. DOT, and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations and changes in the regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices, or limits on vehicle weight and size. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the U.S. DOT. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, that may increase our costs or adversely affect the recruitment of drivers. Management cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted. We may be required to increase operating expenses or capital expenditures in order to comply with any new restrictions or regulations. We are subject to extensive additional governmental regulation. In addition to environmental and trucking regulations, our operations are subject to a variety of other United States and Mexico federal, state and local laws, regulations and guidelines, including laws and regulations relating to health and safety, the conduct of operations, and the manufacture, management, transportation, storage and disposal of certain materials used in our operations. Also, we may become subject to such regulation in any new jurisdiction in which we may operate. We believe that we are in compliance with such laws, regulations and guidelines. Although we continue to enhance our infrastructure, we have invested financial and managerial resources to comply with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines and expect to continue to do so in the future. Although regulatory expenditures have not, historically, been material to us, such laws, regulations and guidelines are subject to change. Accordingly, it is impossible for us to predict the cost or effect of such laws, regulations or guidelines on our future operations. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As of January 1, 2011, we had U.S. federal tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $84.2 million. Generally, net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards, may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce or eliminate U.S. federal income taxes. If we were to experience a change in ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, however, our ability to utilize our NOLs might be significantly limited or possibly eliminated. A change of ownership under Section 382 is defined as a cumulative change of 50% or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning 5% or more of the company’s stock over a three-year period. Based on our review of the issue, we don’t believe that we have experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. However, the issuance of additional equity in the future may result in an ownership change pursuant to Section 382 of the Code. In addition, an ownership change under Section 382 could be caused by circumstances beyond the Company’s control, such as market purchases of our stock. Thus, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an ownership change that would limit our application of our net operating loss carryforwards in calculating future federal tax liabilities. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our operations are inherently risky, and insurance may not always be available in amounts sufficient to fully protect us. We have an insurance and risk management program in place to protect our assets, operations and employees. We also have programs in place to address compliance with current safety and regulatory standards. However, our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oilfield services industry, such as equipment defects, malfunctions, failures, accidents and natural disasters. In addition, hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, blow-outs, fires or other conditions may be encountered in drilling and servicing wells, as well as the transportation of fluids and company assets between locations. These risks and hazards could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage or destruction, pollution and other environmental damages. Although we have obtained insurance against certain of these risks, such insurance is subject to coverage limits and exclusions and may not be available for the risks and hazards to which we are exposed. In addition, no assurance can be given that such insurance will be adequate to cover our liabilities or will be generally available in the future or, if available, that premiums will be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur such liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The market for oil and natural gas may be adversely affected by global demands to curtail use of such fuels. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas and technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce the demand for oil and other liquid hydrocarbons. We cannot predict the effect of changing demand for oil and natural gas products, and any major changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our international operations could be adversely affected by war, civil disturbance, or political or economic turmoil, fluctuation in currency exchange rates and local import and export controls. In late 2008, we began operations in Mexico. We may continue to grow our business in Mexico or other foreign jurisdictions. Foreign operations are subject to various risks, including the risk of war, civil disturbances and governmental activities that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. In Mexico and other foreign jurisdictions, our operations may be subject to additional risks associated with such jurisdictions’ political relations with the United States, currency values and exchange controls, prevailing worker wages, the ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified personnel and operating management in such jurisdictions, difficulty in enforcing agreements due to differences in the legal and regulatory regimes compared to those of the United States, communication and translation errors due to language barriers, our ability to maintain the legal authority of the Company to own and operate its business in Mexico or such other jurisdictions, and our compliance with foreign laws and regulations governing the operation and taxation of our business and the import and export of our equipment. These risks could adversely affect the results of our future operations. Our operations in Mexico are subject to risks associated with contract bidding. Our operations in Mexico are performed for PEMEX, pursuant to a contract. The failure by us to renew this contract could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In March 2011, we completed amendments to the PEMEX contract which extended the term of the contract to December 31, 2011 and increased the dollar value available under the contract. This contract is subject to competitive bid for renewal and there can be no assurances that we will be able to extend the contract beyond December 31, 2011, or increase the amounts available thereunder, or that we will be awarded other contracts by PEMEX. Failure to continue our relationship with PEMEX could negatively impact the Company as services performed for PEMEX have generated approximately USD $5.6 million in net income and USD $45.9 million in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. We cannot predict how an exit by any of our principal equity investors could affect our operations or business. As of March 28, 2011, John E. Crisp, Charles C. Forbes and Janet L. Forbes owned 9.87%, 10.31%, and 9.44%, respectively, of our common shares. Our principal equity investors may transfer their interests in us or engage in other business combination transactions with a third party that could result in a change in ownership or a change of control of us. Any transfer of an equity interest in us or a change of control could affect our governance. We cannot be certain that our equity investors will not sell, transfer or otherwise modify their ownership interest in us, whether in transactions involving third parties or other investors, nor can we predict how a change of equity investors or change of control would affect our operations or business. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our principal equity investors control important decisions affecting our governance and our operations, and their interests may differ from those of the other shareholders and noteholders. Circumstances may arise in which the interest of our principal equity investors could be in conflict with those of the other shareholders and/or noteholders. In particular, our principal equity investors may have an interest in pursuing certain strategies or transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their investment in us even though these strategies or transactions may involve risks to other shareholders and noteholders. Further conflicts of interest may arise between noteholders and our principal equity investors when we are faced with decisions that could have different implications for noteholders and our principal equity investors, including financial budgets, potential competition, the issuance or disposition of securities, the payment of distributions by us, regulatory and legal positions and other matters. Because our principal equity investors control us, these conflicts may be resolved in a manner adverse to, or that imposes more risks on, the noteholders. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise between us and one or more of our principal equity investors when we are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and our principal equity investors. Although our bye-laws provide certain procedural protections and require that any business combination (as defined therein) between us and an interested shareholder (as defined therein) be approved by the board of directors and 66 2/3% of our outstanding voting shares, this does not address all conflicts of interest that may arise. For example, our principal equity investors and their affiliates are not prohibited from competing with us. Because our principal equity investors control us, conflicts of interest arising because of competition between us and a principal equity investor could be resolved in a manner adverse to us. It is possible that there will be situations where our principal equity investors’ interests are in conflict with our interests, and our principal equity investors acting through the board of directors or through our executive officers could resolve these conflicts in a manner adverse to us. We have anti-takeover provisions in our current bye-laws and elsewhere that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of the board of directors. These provisions provide for the following: • restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; • the ability of the board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of the preference shares and to issue such shares without shareholder approval; and • requirements that a majority of the board of directors to approve certain corporate transactions. We also have a shareholder rights plan which makes it very difficult for anyone to accumulate more than a certain percentage of our outstanding equity without approval of the board of directors. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Future legal proceedings could adversely affect us and our operations. Given the nature of our business, we are involved in litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business. While we are not presently a party to any material legal proceedings, legal proceedings could be filed against us in the future. No assurance can be given as to the final outcome of any legal proceedings or that the ultimate resolution of any legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to fully integrate future acquisitions. We may undertake future acquisitions of businesses and assets in the ordinary course of business. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on having the acquired assets perform as expected, successfully consolidating functions, retaining key employees and customer relationships, and integrating operations and procedures in a timely and efficient manner. Such integration may require substantial management effort, time and resources and may divert management’s focus from other strategic opportunities and operational matters, and ultimately we may fail to realize anticipated benefits of acquisitions. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased cost and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but is not subject to regulation at the federal level. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for producers to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 