ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. We developed our first personal mobility product in late 2006. Our limited operating history and the unpredictability of our industry make it difficult to evaluate our business and future operating results. An investor in our securities must consider the risks, uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. The risks and difficulties we face include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and all delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of a new business, the commencement of operations and the competitive environment in which we intend to operate. Our ability to implement our business plan remains unproven and no assurance can be given that we will ever generate sufficient revenues to sustain our business or make a profit. As a recently formed corporation, we have had very limited operations to date and expect to incur losses in the near future. We may require additional financing to sustain our operations and without it we may not be able to continue our operations. We are a newly formed corporation and, as such, we have little revenue and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. Since we recently commenced operations, we may not foresee all developments and problems that may occur and the amount of time and capital required to become profitable and cash flow positive. We may need additional funds to continue our operations, and such additional funds may not be available when required, or that such funding, if available, will be obtained on terms favorable to or affordable by us. To date, we have financed our operations through equity and debt financing. Our ability to arrange future financing from third parties will depend upon our perceived performance and market conditions. Our inability to raise additional working capital at all or to raise it in a timely manner would negatively impact our ability to fund our operations, to generate revenues and to otherwise execute our business plan, leading to the reduction or suspension of our operations and ultimately forcing us to go out of business. Should this occur, the value of our common stock could be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our securities will have little or no value. Our independent registered public accounting firm has noted in its report concerning our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008, that we have incurred recurring losses from operations and have an accumulated deficit and working capital deficit of approximately $24.4 million and $0.6 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. These factors among others raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses from operations of $11.6 million and $8.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and $3.5 million for the period from March 16, 2006 (date of inception) to December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.7 million in cash and cash equivalents to use for working capital, regulatory filing requirements, debt service, research and development and capital requirements. We will incur legal, accounting and other costs associated with being a public company. We used $8.8 million, $6.7 million and $3.2 million in cash for operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the period from March 16, 2006 (inception) through December 31, 2006, respectively. We continue to use cash in excess of operating requirements; however, management has been and is continuing to implement our cost reduction strategy for material, production and service costs. Until management achieves our cost reduction strategy over the next year, we will require additional capital to meet our working capital requirements, debt service, research and development, capital requirements and compliance requirements. We will continue to raise additional equity and/or financing to meet our working capital requirements. Management believes that the achievement of our cost reduction strategy in 2009, will allow us to meet our working capital requirements with our cash inflows from operations. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet operating cash requirements with operating cash inflows. 10 Table of Contents Management believes that our current sources of funds and current liquid assets will allow us to continue as a going concern through at least June 30, 2009. We started selling our vehicles in 2007 and we have obtained equity financing from third parties of approximately $6.7 million, net of offering costs, and received proceeds from related-party notes of $2,200,000 during 2008 and plans to raise additional debt and/or equity capital to finance future activities. In light of these plans, management is confident in our ability to continue as a going concern. Despite such confidence, our significant recurring losses to date raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we will achieve operating profits in the future. If we fail as a going concern, our shares of common stock will hold little or no value. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption in financial markets could impair our revenues. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. These conditions have impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance operations already. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. We are impacted by these economic developments, both domestically and globally, in that the current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, and could result in a decrease in orders for our products and services. These economic conditions may negatively impact us as some of our customers defer purchasing decisions, thereby lengthening our sales cycles. In addition, certain of our customers’ budgets may be constrained and they may be unable to purchase our products at the same level. Our customers’ ability to pay for our products and services may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Should these economic conditions result in us not meeting our revenue objectives, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our markets are highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we will be adversely affected. The industries in which we operate include competitors who are larger, better financed and better known than we are and may compete more effectively than we can. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must keep pace with changing technologies and customer preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our products from those of our competitors, our revenues may decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new personal mobility products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our sales and market share. The personal mobility industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of technologies, products and services. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the personal mobility industry, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. Our significant expenditures on research and development may not reap corresponding benefits. A variety of competing personal mobility technologies that other companies may develop could prove to be more cost-effective and have better performance than our products. Therefore, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new personal mobility products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and result in a decline in our market share and revenue. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our personal mobility products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. We have plans to expand our marketing, distribution, and sales efforts to the European, Asian, and Middle Eastern markets. This exposes us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors who are knowledgeable about and, can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; and • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights. 11 Table of Contents Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Ki Nam, our Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of our Board of Directors. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. The products we sell are inherently risky and could give rise to product liability, product warranty claims and other loss contingencies, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. The products that we manufacture are typically used in situations that may involve high levels of risk of personal injury. Failure to use our products for their intended purposes, failure to use or care for them properly, or their malfunction, or, in some limited circumstances, even correct use of our products, could result in serious bodily injury. Given this potential risk of injury, proper maintenance of our products is critical. While our products are rigorously tested for quality, our products nevertheless may fail to meet customer expectations from time-to-time. Also, not all defects are immediately detectible. Failures could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. In either case, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty. Customers may sue us if any of our products sold to them injure the user. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation and pay significant damages. As a result, any of these claims, whether or not valid or successfully prosecuted, could have a substantial, adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, although we currently have product liability insurance, the amount of damages awarded against us in such a lawsuit may exceed the policy limits of such insurance. Further, in some cases, product redesigns and/or rework may be required to correct a defect and such occurrences could adversely impact future business with affected customers. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected by any unexpected significant warranty costs. Our prospects for sales growth and profitability will be adversely affected if we have product replacement issues, or if we otherwise fail to maintain product quality and product performance at an acceptable cost. We will be able to expand our net sales and to achieve, sustain and enhance profitable operations only if we succeed in maintaining the quality and performance of our products. If we should not be able to produce high-quality products at standard manufacturing rates and yields, unit costs may be higher. In recent periods, we have occasionally had to replace components of existing products. For instance we are voluntarily replacing external chargers due to the fact that the chargers could fail over time. This may adversely affect our reputation with potential customers. We have increased our warranty reserve accordingly. Because the establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of the number of future claims and the cost to settle claims, our ultimate losses may exceed our warranty reserve. Future increases to the warranty reserve would have an adverse effect on our profitability in the periods in which we make such increases. Additional product replacement issues could materially affect our business as it could increase cost of sales as a result of increased warranty service costs, reduce customer confidence on our products, reduce sales revenue, or increase product liability claims. The failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business. We may have difficulty achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of our products which could lead to higher costs, a loss of customers or delay in market acceptance of our products. Slight impurities or defects can cause significant difficulties, particularly in connection with the production of a new product, the adoption of a new manufacturing process or any expansion of our manufacturing capacity and related transitions. Yields below our target levels can negatively impact our gross profit. From time to time we engage in related party transactions. There are no assurances that these transactions are fair to our company. From time to time we enter into transactions with related parties which include the purchase from or sale to of products and services from related parties, and advancing these related parties significant sums as prepayments for future goods or services and working capital, among other transactions. We have in place policies and procedures which require the pre-approval of loans between these related parties. Notwithstanding these policies, we cannot assure you that in every instance the terms of the transactions with these various related parties are on terms as fair as we might receive from or extend to third parties. In addition, related party transactions in general have a higher potential for conflicts of interest than third-party transactions, could result in significant losses to our company and may impair investor confidence, which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. We are dependent on a few single sourced third party manufacturers. Any interruption in our relationships with these parties may adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents Most components used in our products are purchased from outside sources. Certain components are purchased from single sourced suppliers. These single source suppliers provide components used on our products and include domestic suppliers such as American Made, Performance Composites, Imperial Electric and Santa Fe Mold. These suppliers provide the frame, fiberglass body, electric motor, and various small plastic parts, respectively. The failure of any such supplier to meet its commitment on schedule could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If a sole-source supplier were to go out of business or otherwise become unable to meet its supply commitments, the process of locating and qualifying alternate sources could require up to several months, during which time our production could be delayed. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our dependence on third party suppliers for key components of our devices could delay shipment of our products and reduce our sales. We depend on certain domestic and foreign suppliers for the delivery of components used in the assembly of our products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers creates risks related to our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components or subassemblies and reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components and sub-assemblies. Specifically, we depend on suppliers of batteries and battery components and other miscellaneous customer parts for our products. We also do not have long-term agreements with any of our suppliers and there is no guarantee that supply will not be interrupted. Any interruption of supply for any material components of our products and failure to find a suitable alternate supplier in a timely manner could significantly delay the shipment of our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Many of our customers have fluctuating budgets, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our results of operations. Customers for our products include, and may include in the future, federal, state, municipal, foreign and military, law enforcement and other governmental agencies. Government tax revenues and budgetary constraints, which fluctuate from time to time, can affect budgetary allocations for these customers. Many domestic and foreign government agencies have in the past experienced budget deficits that have led to decreased spending in defense, law enforcement and other military and security areas. Our results of operations may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations because of these and other factors affecting military, law enforcement and other governmental spending. A reduction of funding for federal, state, municipal, foreign and other governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our resources may be insufficient to manage the demands imposed by our growth. We have rapidly expanded our operations, and this growth has placed significant demands on our management, administrative, operating and financial resources. The continued growth of our customer base and the geographic markets served can be expected to continue to place a significant strain on our resources. In addition, we cannot easily identify and hire personnel qualified both in the provision and marketing of our products. Our future performance and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional management and other key personnel, and our ability to implement successful enhancements to our management, marketing and sales team and technology personnel. Decreased demand for electric vehicles could cause our products to become obsolete or lose popularity. The electric vehicle industry is in its infancy and has experienced substantial change in the last few years. To date, demand for and interest in electric vehicles has grown. However, continued growth in the electric vehicle industry depends on many factors, including: • continued development of product technology; • the environmental consciousness of customers; • the ability of electric vehicles to successfully compete with vehicles powered by internal combustion engines; • widespread electricity shortages and the resultant increase in electricity prices, especially in our primary market, California, which could derail our past and present efforts to promote electric vehicles as a practical solution to vehicles which require gasoline; and • whether future regulation and legislation requiring increased use of nonpolluting vehicles is enacted. We cannot assure you that growth in the electric vehicle industry will continue. Our business of providing personal mobility vehicles powered by electric motors may suffer if the electric vehicle industry does not grow or grows more slowly than it has in recent years or if we are unable to maintain the pace of industry demands. The failure of certain key suppliers to provide us with components could have a severe and negative impact upon our business. We rely on a small group of suppliers to provide us with our custom design components for our products; some of these are located outside of the United States. If these suppliers become unwilling or unable to provide components, delays could be caused as there are a limited number of alternative suppliers who could provide them on demand. Changes in business conditions, wars, governmental changes and other factors beyond our control or which we do not presently anticipate could affect our ability to receive components from our suppliers in a timely 13 Table of Contents manner. Further, it could be difficult to find replacement components if our current suppliers of custom parts fail to provide the parts needed for these products. A failure by these suppliers to provide the components could severely restrict our ability to manufacture our products and prevent us from fulfilling customer orders in a timely fashion. Our success is heavily dependent on protecting our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections to protect our proprietary technology. Our success will, in part, depend on our ability to obtain trademarks and patents. We license three patents and hold three trademarks registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We cannot assure you that these trademarks and patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that the rights granted under those registrations will provide competitive advantages to us. We also rely on trade secrets and new technologies to maintain our competitive position, but we cannot be certain that others will not gain access to these trade secrets. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We may be exposed to liability for infringing intellectual property rights of other companies. Our success will, in part, depend on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Although we have conducted searches and are not aware of any patents and trademarks which our products or their use might infringe, we cannot be certain that infringement has not or will not occur. We could incur substantial costs, in addition to the great amount of time lost, in defending any patent or trademark infringement suits or in asserting any patent or trademark rights, in a suit with another party. Our officers and directors own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which will enable them to influence many significant corporate actions and in certain circumstances may prevent a change in control that would otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Our directors and executive officers control at least 67% of our outstanding shares of stock that are entitled to vote on all corporate actions. In particular, our controlling stockholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ki Nam, together with his children, owns 67% of the outstanding shares. Mr. Nam could have a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most of our corporate actions. This control could delay, defer, or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover, or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our shareholders and us. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating Ownership of Our Securities If a public market for our common stock develops, we expect to experience volatility in the price of our common stock. This may result in substantial losses to investors if they are unable to sell their shares at or above their purchase price. If a public market for our common stock develops, we expect the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially for the indefinite future due to a number of factors, including: • our status as a company with a limited operating history and limited revenues to date, which may make risk-averse investors more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the shares of a seasoned issuer in the event of negative news or lack of progress; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • the timing and development of our products; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • our capital commitments; and • the loss of any of our key management personnel. In addition, the financial markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of the securities of technology companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent revenues and earnings, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future, some of which may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The sale or attempted sale of a large amount of common stock into the market may also have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, 14 Table of Contents securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, which may reduce your return on an investment in our common stock. We plan to use all of our earnings; to the extent we have earnings, to fund our operations. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee that we will, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution as a dividend to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, any return on your investment would derive from an increase in the price of our stock, which may or may not occur. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price. As of December 31, 2008, 43,592,428 shares of common stock, and warrants for the purchase of 697,639, 1,298,701, 2,597,402, 666,666 and 120,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.081, $1.08, $1.65, $2.00 and $1.54 per share, respectively, were outstanding. In addition, we intend to file a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, to register approximately 7,450,000 shares of our common stock underlying options granted or to be granted to our officers, directors, employees and consultants. These shares, if issued in accordance with these plans, will be eligible for immediate sale in the public market, subject to volume limitations. As of December 31, 2008, there were 6,468,167 options outstanding, of which 3,256,924 were vested. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. The sale of a large number of shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. We may raise additional capital through a securities offering that could dilute your ownership interest and voting rights. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 15, 2009, after taking into consideration our outstanding common shares, our board of directors will be entitled to issue up to 42,606,132 additional shares. The power of the board of directors to issue shares of common stock or warrants or options to purchase shares of our stock is generally not subject to shareholder approval. We require substantial working capital to fund our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or convertible debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock by our board of directors will also have the effect of diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. Our incorporation documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also limit the market price of your stock, which may inhibit an attempt by our stockholders to change our direction or management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Some of these provisions: • authorize our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to, or imposed upon, the preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series without further action by our stockholders; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us, which may prevent or frustrate any attempt by our stockholders to change our management or the direction in which we are heading. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. 15 Table of Contents We will be subject to the penny stock rules once our common stock becomes eligible for trading. These rules may adversely affect trading in our common stock. We expect that our common stock will be a “low-priced” security under the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealer’s duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer obtain specific written consent from the customer and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions will probably decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, decrease liquidity of our common stock and increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. Stockholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. We will incur increased costs and compliance risks as a result of becoming a public company. We are a public company and we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We will incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). We expect these rules and regulations, in particular Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Like many smaller public companies, we face a significant impact from required compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of such internal controls. The SEC has adopted rules implementing Section 404 for public companies as well as disclosure requirements. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has adopted documentation and attestation standards that the independent registered public accounting firm must follow in conducting its attestation under Section 404. We are currently preparing for compliance with Section 404; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively meet all of the requirements of Section 404 as currently known to us in the currently mandated timeframe. Any failure to implement effectively new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm providing an adverse opinion regarding our controls over financial reporting. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If our shares are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, they may be thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. There is no prior history of public trading in our stock upon which to base a determination of the trading that may occur in the stock. Through the listing process on the OTC Bulletin Board (“Listing”), we are essentially going public without the typical initial public offering procedures which usually include a large selling group of broker-dealers who may provide market support after going public. Thus, we will be required to undertake efforts to develop market recognition for us and support for our shares of Common Stock in the public market. The price and volume for our Common Stock that will develop after the Registration and Listing cannot be assured. The numbers of persons interested in purchasing our Common Stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a 16 Table of Contents number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days, weeks or months when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our Common Stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained or not diminish. We intend to cause our common stock to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our intention is to apply for trading on either the NASDAQ market or the American Stock Exchange at such time that we meet the requirements for listing on those exchanges. There can be no assurance as to when we will qualify for any of these exchanges or that we will ever qualify for these exchanges. While we are trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, the trading volume we will develop may be limited by the fact that many major institutional investment funds, including mutual funds, as well as individual investors follow a policy of not investing in OTC Bulletin Board stocks and certain major brokerage firms restrict their brokers from recommending OTC Bulletin Board stocks because they are considered speculative, volatile and thinly traded. The market price for our Common Stock may be particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly traded public float, limited operating history and lack of profits which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchase the Shares may not be indicative of the price of the Common Stock that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your Shares at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; • announcements of new products or services by us; • fluctuations in interest rates; • significant sales of our Common Stock; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and • news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. The stock markets in general and the market prices for penny stock companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause our Common Stock price to fall. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect our revenues or our expenses in any particular quarter. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • market acceptance of our products and those of our competitors; • our ability to attract and retain key personnel; • development of new designs and technologies; and • our ability to manage our anticipated growth and expansion. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of Common Stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Any substantial sale of our Common Stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus (including sales by investors of securities acquired in connection with this Offering) may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. 17 Table of Contents Investors who purchased units of our securities, consisting of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock, from December 2007 through December 2008, have anti-dilution rights with respect to the shares of common stock issued in the unit offering. These rights are not available to other holders of our common stock. If future issuances of our common stock trigger these anti-dilution rights, holders of our common stock would have their investments diluted. The security holders who purchased our units consisting of shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock have anti-dilution rights. In the event that we sell common stock for less than $1.65 per share or issue securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock at a conversion price or exercise price less than $1.65 per share (a “Dilutive Issuance”), then we are required to issue a number of additional shares of common stock to each unit purchaser, without additional consideration. The number of additional shares to be issued will be equal to the product of the purchaser’s subscription amount multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of common stock sold and issued at the closing of such Dilutive Issuance plus the number of shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of common stock sold and issued at the closing of such Dilutive Issuance would purchase at $1.65 per share, and the denominator of which is the number of shares of common stock issued and outstanding on the date of such Dilutive Issuance plus the number of additional shares of common stock sold and issued at the closing of such Dilutive Issuance. In this case, other holders of our common stock would be diluted to a greater extent than they would be if the anti-dilution provision were not triggered. Holders of our 10% Bridge Financing have anti-dilution rights that are triggered by a disposition of our common stock at a price per share that is lower than the conversion price of such notes. These rights are not available to the holders of our common stock. If future issuances of our common stock trigger the anti-dilution rights, an investment in our common stock would be diluted to the extent such convertible notes are converted. Holders of $2,200,000 in aggregate principal amount of our 10% Bridge Financing may convert the outstanding principal amount and accrued interest thereon into equity securities upon the closing of our next equity financing. They have agreed that they will convert into preferred stock if our next equity financing is a convertible preferred stock financing of at least $6 million before April 30, 2009. If all of our 10% Bridge Financing were converted into preferred stock at $1.65 per share, we would be required to issue an additional 1,333,333 shares. If, during the time that any of our 10% Bridge Financing are outstanding, we sell or grant any option to purchase (other than options issued to our employees, officers, directors and consultants), or sell or grant any right to reprice our securities, or otherwise dispose of or issue any common stock or common stock equivalents entitling any person to acquire shares of our common stock at a price per share that is lower than the conversion price of these notes (which, for purposes of this discussion will be designated as the “Base Conversion Price”), then the conversion price of the debentures will be reduced according to the following weighted average formula: the conversion price will be multiplied by a fraction the denominator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of the issuance plus the number of additional shares of common stock offered for purchase and the numerator of which will be the number of shares of common stock outstanding on the date of such issuance plus the number of shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered would purchase at the conversion price. A reduction in the conversion price resulting from the foregoing would allow the holders of our 10% Bridge Financing to receive more shares of prefererd stock than they would otherwise be entitled to receive. In that case, other holders of our common stock would be diluted to a greater extent than they would be if no adjustment to the conversion price were required. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors, which could result in substantial expenditures. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on behalf of our company. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup. 