Item 1A. Risk Factors. Adverse Event and Trends—Adverse events and trends in the vacation ownership, vacation rental and travel industries could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of ILG and our businesses depends, in substantial part, upon the health of the worldwide vacation ownership, vacation rental and travel industries. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns. Also, inclement weather and/or natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods and tsunamis may result in the inability of consumers to travel to and vacation in certain destinations and regions in which participating resorts operate and/or vacation rental properties are located. Similarly, significant damage to resorts and/or vacation rental properties could result in a decrease in the number of resort accommodations or vacation rentals available for use in our vacation ownership membership programs or as vacation rentals. Our businesses are also sensitive to travel health concerns, such as SARS, bird flu and other pandemics, as well as concerns related to terrorism, enhanced travel security measures and/or geopolitical conflicts. Accordingly, downturns or weaknesses in the vacation and travel industries or price increases for travel related services, including economic factors adversely impacting consumers' decisions to use and consume travel services, the overall financial instability of the airline industry and associated air carrier bankruptcies, decreased airlift to relevant markets, job actions and strikes, and increased costs of transportation based on increased fuel prices, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as could inclement weather, natural disasters, health concerns, terrorism, enhanced travel security measures and/or geopolitical conflicts. These factors could lead to changes in deposit and demand patterns causing a significant number of members to relinquish well in advance of intended travel times. The current downturn in the economy may decrease demand for purchases of vacation ownership interests, may increase default rates among current owners and may increase refund requests from our members. The matters described above could result in a decrease in the number of Interval's exchange network members and could have a material adverse effect on the vacation ownership and vacation rental industries, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Availability of Financing, Developer Insolvency—Lack of available financing for vacation property developers and consumers and the resultant potential for insolvency of developers could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our exchange network membership which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Vacation property developers rely on the credit markets for receivables financing used to fund their sales and marketing efforts and to finance new development. If receivables financing remains unavailable or is only available on unacceptable terms, developers may continue to scale back or even cease operations, including sales and marketing efforts, which would have been a source of new members for our exchange networks. If financing for development of resorts is not available or is only 12 Table of Contents available on unacceptable terms, the developers may delay or cancel planned projects which would have been a source of new members for our exchange networks. In some cases, inability to obtain financing has and may continue to lead to insolvency of one or more resort developers affiliated with Interval, which in turn could reduce or stop the flow of new members from their resorts and also could adversely affect the operations and desirability of exchange with those resorts, if the developer's insolvency impacts the management of the resorts. In addition to potential developer insolvency, the lack of available credit for consumers may decrease the number of potential purchasers of vacation interests which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insolvency of several properties managed or marketed by Aston, particularly those owned by a single entity, could materially adversely affect that segment's business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition—The industries in which our businesses operate are highly competitive and these businesses are subject to risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our performance. Our businesses will be adversely impacted if they cannot compete effectively in their respective industries, each of which is highly competitive. Our continued success depends upon our ability to compete effectively. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In particular, in the case of our Interval business, its primary competitor, RCI is larger and, through the resources of its corporate affiliates, particularly, Wyndham Vacation Ownership, Inc., itself engaged in vacation ownership sales, may have greater access to a significant segment of new vacation ownership purchasers. Aston's hotels, resorts and vacation rentals compete with other vacation properties in Hawaii including those managed by larger management companies. New competition or existing competition that does not operate on a value-added, membership basis may cause Interval to reduce its fee structure or potentially modify its business model, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third Party Relationships—We depend on relationships with developers, members and other vacation property owners and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Interval business is dependent upon vacation ownership developers for new members and supply of resort accommodations for use in exchanges and Getaways, as well as upon members to renew their existing memberships and otherwise engage in transactions. Our Aston business is dependent upon vacation property owners and hotel owners for vacation properties to manage and rent to vacationers. Interval has established multi-year relationships with numerous developers pursuant to exclusive affiliation agreements and we believe that relationships with these entities are generally strong, but these historical relationships may not continue in the future. Approximately one-third of the affiliation agreements with Interval's largest 25 developers, as determined based on new member contribution for the calendar year 2008, do not include auto-renewal provisions. During 2009, the affiliation agreements for several of Interval's largest new member producing developers are scheduled to renew. Negotiations aimed at the extension of these affiliation relationships are ongoing or are anticipated to commence shortly. The non-renewal of an affiliation agreement will adversely affect the ability of Interval to secure new members for its programs from the non-renewing resort, and will result in the loss of existing members (and their vacation interests) at the end of their current membership to the extent that Interval does not secure membership renewals directly from such members. In addition, Interval may be unable to negotiate new affiliation agreements with resort developers or secure renewals with existing members in its exchange programs, and its failure to do so would result in decreases in the number of new and/or existing members, the supply of resort accommodations available through its exchange networks and related revenue. If Interval is unable to obtain sufficient renewals of affiliations 13 Table of Contents with resorts and memberships with consumers or to enter into new affiliation agreements, this could have a material adverse effect on ILG's business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, the loss of several large developers from which Interval receives membership renewal fees directly could materially impact Interval's business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that developers will continue to create and operate internal reservation and exchange systems, which decreases their reliance on vacation ownership membership programs, including those offered by Interval, and could adversely impact the supply of resort accommodations available through Interval's exchange networks. The vacation ownership industry has experienced consolidation through the acquisition of vacation ownership developers by other developers, which may result in the diversion of exchange membership and other business. The ability of Interval to maintain existing or negotiate new affiliation agreements is adversely impacted by the continued creation and operation of internal reservation and exchange systems by developers, as well as by consolidation in the vacation ownership industry. Similarly, the failure of Aston to maintain existing or negotiate new hotel and resort management and/or rental services arrangements with vacation property owners, as a result of the sale of property to third parties or otherwise, or the failure of vacationers to book vacation rentals through Aston would result in a decrease in related revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Vacation Rental Revenue—our success is dependent, in part, on revenue from vacation rentals and, if the current economic downturn caused consumer demand for vacation rentals to fall materially below historic levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The current macroeconomic downturn has negatively affected demand for our rentals of vacation accommodations to our members and other vacationers, leading us to decrease pricing and resulting in reduced revenue from vacation rentals. The Hawaiian tourism market has been particularly affected by this downturn, impacting the vacation rental revenue generated by our Aston segment. Any failure by Aston to secure a sufficient number of vacationers for accommodations managed or marketed by it could also result in increased obligations under guaranteed dollar amount or specified percentage provisions of certain hotel and resort management agreements and, ultimately, could affect Aston's ability to obtain and maintain management agreements with vacation property owners. Interval also actively seeks to provide vacation rental services to resorts participating in its exchange networks. Any additional or prolonged decrease in demand and/or pricing for vacation rentals would further impact our revenue and, if materially below historical levels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial position. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt of approximately $427.2 million, consisting of $300.0 million of senior notes with an unamortized balance of original issue discount of $22.8 million and $150.0 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities. We also had an additional $50.0 million, net of any letters of credit usage, available for borrowing under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facilities at that date. We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may: •make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; •limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; •limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; 14 Table of Contents •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; •limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and •increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Key Personnel—Loss of one or more of our key personnel could adversely affect our relationships with third parties, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations require managerial and operational expertise as well as the maintenance of relationships with resort developers and other third parties. In particular, we are dependent upon the management skills and continued services of several members of our senior management team, including Craig M. Nash, our Chief Executive Officer, Jeanette E. Marbert, our Chief Operating Officer, David C. Gilbert, Interval's Executive Vice President—Resort Sales and Marketing, and Kelvin M. Bloom, President of Aston. The failure of such key personnel to continue to be active in management of our businesses could have a material adverse effect on relationships with third parties, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our agreements with a few developers allow the developer a limited termination right in the event that two or more of these individuals who are involved in the Interval segment are no longer with our company, generally in association with a material adverse impact. We do not maintain key employee insurance for any of our officers and employees. Adverse Events and Trends in Key Vacation Destinations—Adverse events and trends in key vacation destinations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial percentage of the vacation ownership resorts currently participating in Interval's exchange networks are located in Florida, Hawaii, Las Vegas, Mexico and Southern California, and all of the vacation properties for which Aston provides hotel and resort management and vacation rental services are located in Hawaii. Approximately $150 million in revenue was generated from travel to properties located in all of these locations as well as hotel and resort management services performed in Hawaii in 2008. As a result, our ongoing ability to successfully process confirmed vacations for members, as well as our ability to find vacationers for accommodations managed or marketed by Aston, is largely dependent on the continued desirability of these areas as key vacation destinations. Any significant shift in travel demand for one or more of these key destinations or any adverse impact on 15 Table of Contents transportation to them, such as decreased airlift or increased travel costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, according to the Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism ("DBEDT"), the number of visitors to Hawaii declined 10.6% in 2008 compared to 2007. This was due to general economic conditions and the bankruptcies of two prominent airlines serving the region. Their resultant cessation of operations decreased the availability of flights for vacationers seeking to travel to Hawaii. A decline in visitors is expected to continue through 2009. A continued trend of lower demand for vacation properties in Hawaii could result in increased obligations under guaranteed dollar amount or specified percentage provisions of certain hotel and resort management agreements and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, hurricanes, earthquakes or other adverse events impacting one or more of these key destinations could significantly reduce the number of accommodations available for exchanges, Getaways or rental to vacationers, as well as the need for vacation rental and hotel and resort management services generally. Accordingly, any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the impact of which could be prolonged. International Operations—Interval operates in a number of international markets, which exposes us to additional risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Revenue from international operations represented approximately 16.6%, 16.2% and 17.6% of our consolidated revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease in 2007 from 2006 is due to domestic revenue growing at a faster rate during this time period, primarily due to the acquisition of Aston in 2007. We continue to seek to expand and invest in our vacation ownership membership business in various international markets. In order to achieve widespread acceptance in international markets, Interval must continue to successfully tailor its services to the unique customs and cultures of relevant countries and markets. Learning the customs and cultures of various countries and markets can be difficult and costly, and the failure to do so could slow international growth. Operating in international markets also exposes us to additional risks, including, among others, changes in regulatory requirements, including taxation, limits on our ability to sell products and services and enforce intellectual property rights and difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with staffing and managing foreign operations. Also, in particular, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations due to the effects of translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in hedging transactions designed to reduce our exposure to foreign currency risk. We are also exposed to risks associated with the repatriation of cash generated by certain of our foreign operations to the United States. Currently, we conduct business in Venezuela where currency restrictions exist. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $5.4 million of US dollar equivalent cash which can only be repatriated upon the approval of the Venezuelan government. While we continue to request approval to repatriate this cash through all lawful means, these efforts may be unsuccessful. Furthermore, other countries in which we maintain operations may impose limitations on the repatriation of cash generated by operations in such countries now or in the future. Any limitation on us to repatriate significant cash generated by our international operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Strategic Arrangements—We may experience financial and operational risks in connection with acquisitions and strategic arrangements. In addition, businesses acquired by us may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We acquired Aston in May 2007 and intend to selectively pursue other acquisitions. However, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete transactions on favorable terms. In addition, in the case of acquired businesses, we will need to: •successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with existing operations and systems; •maintain third party relationships previously established by acquired companies; •retain senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and •successfully manage acquisition-related strain on our and/or the acquired businesses' management, operations and financial resources. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any others encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and/or the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more unfavorable events or trends, which could result in impairment charges in addition to that taken with respect to the Aston businesses for the year ended December 31, 2008. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also intend to selectively enter into joint ventures and other strategic arrangements to provide new products and services complementary to those currently offered by our businesses. However, we may be unable to successfully enter into these arrangements on favorable terms or launch related products and services or such products and services may not gain market acceptance or be profitable. The failure to develop and execute any such initiatives on a cost-effective basis could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Property Renovations—A significant decrease in the supply of available vacation rental accommodations due to ongoing property renovations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of the vacation rental properties in Hawaii for which Aston provides hotel and resort management and vacation rental services are expected to undergo significant renovations over the next few years. These renovations may result in a decrease in the supply of vacation rental accommodations available to vacationers during the applicable renovation periods. Furthermore, ongoing renovations at a particular property may negatively impact the desirability of the property as a vacation destination. A significant decrease in the supply of available vacation rental accommodations and the need for vacation rental services during renovation periods, coupled with the inability to attract vacationers to properties undergoing renovations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance and Changing Laws, Rules and Regulations—The failure of our businesses to comply with extensive regulatory requirements, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are subject to various laws, rules and regulations on a global basis, including those specific to the vacation ownership membership services industry, as well as those applicable to businesses generally, such as consumer protection and sales, use, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations. While we believe that the operations and practices of our businesses have been 17 Table of Contents structured in a manner to ensure material compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities may take a contrary position. The failure of our businesses to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain required licenses or rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our businesses, including those related to the imposition of taxes, could decrease demand for the services offered by our businesses, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The vacation ownership industry is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and elsewhere, which generally requires vacation ownership resort developers to follow certain procedures in connection with the sale and marketing of vacation interests, including the filing of offering statements describing proposed developments with relevant governmental authorities for approval and the delivery to prospective purchasers of certain information relating to the terms of the purchase and use, including rescission rights. Although we and our businesses are not subject to these regulations, such regulations directly affect the members and resort developers that participate in Interval's exchange networks and, therefore, indirectly affect us. As a result, any negative change in the regulatory environment within the vacation ownership industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the European Union has passed a new timeshare directive to augment existing regulations, that upon implementation by member states, may adversely affect the businesses of resort developers in Europe and/or our business. Our vacation rental operations are directly subject to a number of licensing requirements, as well as certain laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, particularly, those associated with the hotel and resort management, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of managed premises. The failure of Aston businesses to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain required licenses or rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maintenance of Systems and Infrastructure—Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructure. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructure may have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and distribution and fulfillment facilities. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems and infrastructure may adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent our businesses from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in the systems and infrastructures of our businesses and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructure, could impair the ability of our businesses to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructure at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent our businesses from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While our businesses have backup systems for certain aspects of their operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to 18 Table of Contents compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Claims could also be made against us for other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized purposes or identity theft, which could result in litigation and financial liabilities, as well as administrative action from governmental authorities. Security breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, undetected fraud, inadvertent violations of company policies or procedures or other developments could result in a compromise of information or a breach of the technology and security processes that are used to protect consumer transaction data. As a result, current security measures may not prevent any or all security breaches. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with which we are affiliated or otherwise conduct business online. Consumers are generally concerned with security and privacy of the Internet, and any publicized security problems affecting our businesses and/or those of third parties may discourage consumers from doing business with us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Privacy—The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation or conflicting legal requirements. In the processing of consumer transactions, our businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us and our businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of these businesses, discourage potential users from trying our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intellectual Property—We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property (as applicable), as critical to our success. Our businesses also rely heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other components that make up their products and services. 19 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use trade secret or copyrighted intellectual property without authorization which, if discovered, might require legal action to correct. In addition, third parties may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar intellectual properties. We have generally registered and continue to apply to register, or secure by contract when appropriate, our trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve and register domain names as we deem appropriate. We generally consider the protection of our trademarks to be important for purposes of brand maintenance and reputation. While we protect our trademarks, service marks and domain names, effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available, and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in a meaningful manner or challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit our ability of to control marketing on or through the internet using our various domain names or otherwise, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Internal Controls—We will need to make substantial financial and manpower investments in order to assess our internal controls over financial reporting, and our internal controls over financial reporting may be found to be deficient. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires both management and our external auditors to assess and attest on our internal controls over financial reporting. Since we became a reporting company in August 2008, Securities and Exchange Commission regulations require us to include this assessment and attestation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K commencing with the annual report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. We will incur significant increased costs in implementing and responding to these requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex and require significant documentation, testing and, if necessary, possible remediation. Our process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting may cause a significant strain on our management, information systems and resources. We may have to invest in additional accounting and software systems. We may be required to hire additional personnel and to use outside legal, accounting, and advisory services. In addition, we will incur additional fees from our auditors as they perform the additional services necessary for them to provide their attestation. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting when we are required to, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, then we may be required to change our internal controls over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, causing our stock price to decline. 20 Table of Contents We have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased costs relating to operating as an independent company that could cause our cash flow and results of operations to decline. Since we became a public company in August 2008, we did not incur all of the expenditures related to being a public company, including substantial public reporting and investor relations obligations, during 2008. Because of this our results of operations for 2009 will not be directly comparable. In addition, prior to the spin-off IAC's businesses, by virtue of being under the same corporate structure, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, human capital, vendor relationships, insurance and customer relationships with the businesses that we and the other Spincos own following the spin-offs. The increased costs resulting from the loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on us. If one or more spin-offs, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and/or 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, IAC, the Spincos and IAC stockholders may be subject to significant tax liabilities. IAC received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") and an opinion of counsel regarding the qualification of the spin-offs, together with certain related transactions, as transactions that are generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and/or 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The IRS private letter ruling and the opinions were based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as the accuracy of certain representations and statements that IAC and the Spincos made to the IRS and to counsel or IAC's external tax advisors. If any of these representations or statements are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if IAC or the Spincos breach any of their respective covenants, the IRS private letter ruling and/or the opinions may be invalid. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-offs qualify as transactions that are generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that one or more of the spin-offs should be treated as a taxable distribution if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the IRS private letter ruling is false or has been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If one or more spin-offs were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and/or 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, then IAC generally would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of the Spinco common stock distributed to the IAC stockholders in such taxable spin-off over (ii) IAC's tax basis in the common stock of such Spinco. In addition, each IAC stockholder who received Spinco common stock in such taxable spin-off generally would be treated as having received a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Spinco common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the stockholder) in such spin-off, which would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the stockholder's ratable share of IAC's current and accumulated earnings and profits (as increased to reflect any current income, including any gain, recognized by IAC on the taxable spin-off). The balance, if any, of the distribution would be treated as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the IAC stockholder's tax basis in its IAC stock, with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement that we entered into with IAC and the other Spincos, each Spinco generally is required to indemnify IAC and the other Spincos for any taxes resulting from the spin-off of such Spinco (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) any act or failure to act by such Spinco described in the covenants in the Tax Sharing 21 Table of Contents Agreement, (ii) any acquisition of equity securities or assets of such Spinco or a member of its group, or (iii) any breach by such Spinco or any member of its group of any representation or covenant contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and/or tax opinions. The ability of IAC or the other Spincos to collect under these indemnity provisions will depend on the financial position of the indemnifying party In addition, the IRS could disagree with or challenge the conclusions reached in one or more of the tax opinions that IAC received with respect to certain related matters and transactions. In such case, IAC could recognize material amounts of taxable income or gain. Certain transactions in IAC or Spinco equity securities could cause one or more of the spin-offs to be taxable to IAC and may give rise to indemnification obligations of ILG under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the spin-off of a Spinco would be taxable to IAC, but not to its stockholders, if such spin-off is part of a "plan or series of related transactions" pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in IAC or such Spinco. Acquisitions that occur during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of a spin-off are presumed to occur pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions, unless it is established that the acquisition is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions that includes the spin-off. U.S. Treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition and a spin-off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the Treasury regulations. In addition, the Treasury regulations provide several "safe harbors" for acquisitions that are not considered to be part of a plan. These rules will limit our ability during the two-year period following the spin-offs to enter into certain transactions that might be advantageous to us and our stockholders, particularly issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs, repurchasing equity securities, and, under certain circumstances, acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities or agreeing to be acquired. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take such actions until September 2010. In addition, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that each Spinco will indemnify IAC and the other Spincos for any taxes resulting from the spin-off of such Spinco (and any related interest, penalties, legal and professional fees, and all costs and damages associated with related stockholder litigation or controversies) to the extent such amounts result from (i) any act or failure to act by such Spinco described in the covenants in the Tax Sharing Agreement, (ii) any acquisition of equity securities or assets of such Spinco or a member of its group, and (iii) any breach by such Spinco or any member of its group of any representation or covenant contained in the separation documents or in the documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and/or tax opinions. In addition to actions of IAC and the Spincos, certain transactions that are outside their control and therefore not subject to the restrictive covenants contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement, such as a sale or disposition of the stock of IAC or the stock of a Spinco by certain persons that own five percent or more of any class of stock of IAC or such Spinco, respectively, could have a similar effect on the tax-free status of the spin-offs as transactions to which IAC or a Spinco is a party. As of December 31, 2008, Liberty Media Corporation and certain of its affiliates, in the aggregate, owned ILG stock representing approximately 29.6% by vote and value. Accordingly, in evaluating our ability to engage in certain transactions involving our equity securities, we will need to take into account the activities of Liberty Media Corporation and its affiliates. As a result of these rules, even if the ILG spin-off otherwise qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, transactions involving ILG or IAC equity securities (including transactions by certain significant stockholders) could cause IAC to recognize taxable gain with respect to the stock of ILG as described above. Although the restrictive covenants and indemnification provisions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement are intended to minimize the 22 Table of Contents likelihood that such an event will occur, the ILG spin-off may become taxable to IAC as a result of transactions in IAC or ILG equity securities. The spin-off agreements were not the result of arm's length negotiations. The agreements that we entered into with IAC and the other Spincos in connection with the spin-offs, including the separation and distribution agreement, tax sharing agreement, employee matters agreement and transition services agreement, were established by IAC, in consultation with the Spincos, with the intention of maximizing the value to IAC's shareholders at the time of the spin-off. Accordingly, the terms for us may not be as favorable as would have resulted from negotiations among unrelated third parties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 