Item 1A. Risk Factors. Adverse Events and Trends—Adverse events and trends in the vacation ownership, vacation rental and travel industries could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of ILG and our businesses depends, in substantial part, upon the health of the worldwide vacation ownership, vacation rental and travel industries. Travel expenditures are sensitive to 15 Table of Contents business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns. Economic conditions may cause decreased demand for purchases of vacation ownership interests, may increase default rates among current owners, and may increase refund requests from our members. Members and other consumers may be unable or unwilling to travel to certain destinations where participating resorts and managed vacation rental properties are located based on one or more of the following factors: •inclement weather, •natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods and tsunamis •epidemics, pandemics or other health concerns, •terrorism, regional violence, enhanced travel security measures and/or geopolitical conflicts, •price increases for travel related services, •financial instability of the airline industry and associated air carrier bankruptcies, •decreased airlift to relevant markets, •job actions and strikes, and •increased costs of transportation based on increased fuel prices. These could result in a decrease and/or delay in demand for travel to our managed hotels and resorts and for exchanges and Getaways to, and purchases of, vacation ownership interests in affected regions. This decrease and/or delay in demand, depending on its scope and duration, could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Similarly, these factors could result in a decrease in the number of resort accommodations or vacation rentals available for use in our membership and exchange programs or as vacation rentals. The matters described above could result in a decrease in the number of Interval Network members and could have a material adverse effect on the vacation ownership and vacation rental industries, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Availability of Financing and Developer Insolvency—Lack of available financing for vacation property developers and consumers and the resultant potential for insolvency and bankruptcy of developers could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our exchange networks membership and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Vacation property developers rely on the credit markets for receivables financing used to fund their sales and marketing efforts and for financing new development. If receivables financing or financing for development of resorts is unavailable or is only available on unacceptable terms, developers may scale back or even cease operations, including sales and marketing efforts and development of resorts, sources of new members for our exchange networks. In addition, developers may seek to extend or adjust payment terms with us. Inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, has led to and may continue to lead to insolvency of resort developers affiliated with our exchange networks, which in turn could reduce or stop the flow of new members from their resorts and also could adversely affect the operations and desirability of exchange with those resorts if the developer's insolvency impacts the management of the resorts. In some cases a developer in bankruptcy could terminate its existing relationship with us. Insolvency of one or more developers that in the aggregate have significant obligations owed to us could cause impairments to certain receivables and assets which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Insolvency of a number of properties managed by us, particularly one or more of our largest managed properties, could materially adversely affect the Management and Rental segment's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a lack of available credit for consumers also could result in a decrease in potential purchasers of vacation interests who would otherwise become members or participants in our exchange networks and a decrease in potential purchasers of vacation properties where we manage properties. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation of Developers—Consolidation of developers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations The industry has been in a period of consolidation, which may continue. When developers that have affiliation agreements with the Interval Network are acquired, they may choose not to continue the agreement or renew at the end of the current term. If we are unable to obtain or retain business relationships with the resultant resort developers, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Competition—The industries in which our businesses operate are highly competitive and these businesses are subject to risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our performance. Our businesses will be adversely impacted if they cannot compete effectively in their respective industries, each of which is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In particular, in the case of our Interval Network, its primary competitor, RCI, is larger. Through the resources of its corporate affiliates, particularly, Wyndham Vacation Ownership, Inc., itself engaged in vacation ownership sales, RCI may have greater access to a significant segment of new vacation ownership purchasers and a broader platform for participating in industry consolidation. Our Management and Rental businesses compete with other vacation properties and managers including larger management companies and their managed properties. Competitive pressures may cause us to reduce our fee structure or potentially modify our business models, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that developers will continue to create, operate and expand internal reservation and exchange systems, which decreases their reliance on vacation ownership membership programs, including those offered by us, and adversely impacts the supply of resort accommodations available through our exchange networks. The effects on our business are more pronounced as the proportion of corporate members in the Interval Network increases. The vacation ownership industry has and may continue to experience consolidation through the acquisition of vacation ownership developers by other developers, which may result in the diversion of exchange membership and other business. Third Party Relationships—We depend on relationships with developers, members and other vacation property owners and any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Interval Network business is dependent upon vacation ownership developers for new members and upon members and participants to renew their existing memberships and otherwise engage in transactions. Developers and members also supply resort accommodations for use in exchanges and Getaways. Our Management and Rental businesses are dependent upon vacation property and hotel owners and homeowners' associations for vacation properties to manage and rent to vacationers. The Interval Network has established multi-year relationships with numerous developers pursuant to exclusive affiliation agreements and we believe that relationships with these entities are generally strong, but these historical relationships may not continue in the future. During each year, the affiliation agreements for several of the Interval Network's largest new member-producing developers 17 Table of Contents are scheduled to renew. The non-renewal of an affiliation agreement will adversely affect our ability to secure new members for our programs from the non-renewing resort or developer, and will result in the loss of existing Interval Network members (and their vacation interests) at the end of their current membership to the extent that we do not secure membership renewals directly from such members. In addition, we may be unable to negotiate new affiliation agreements with resort developers or secure renewals with existing members in our exchange programs, and our failure to do so would result in decreases in the number of new and/or existing members, the supply of resort accommodations available through our exchange networks and related revenue. If we are unable to obtain sufficient renewals of affiliations with resorts and memberships with consumers or to enter into new affiliation agreements, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain existing or negotiate new affiliation agreements on terms as favorable as currently in place may be adversely impacted by the continued creation and operation of internal reservation and exchange systems by developers, as well as by consolidation in the vacation ownership industry. Similarly, the failure of our Management and Rental businesses to maintain existing or negotiate new hotel, resort and homeowners association management agreements and/or rental services arrangements with vacation property owners, as a result of the sale of property to third parties, contract dispute or otherwise, or the failure of vacationers to book vacation rentals through these businesses would result in a decrease in related revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of one or more of our largest management agreements could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of our Management and Rental businesses. Inventory—Insufficient availability of inventory may adversely affect our profits. Our Interval Network transaction levels are influenced by the supply of inventory in the system and the demand for such available inventory. The availability of exchange inventory is dependent on it being deposited into the system, directly by a member in support of a current or future exchange request or by a developer on behalf of its owners to support their anticipated exchanges. A number of factors may impact the supply and demand of inventory. For example, economic conditions may negatively impact our members' desire to travel, often resulting in an increase in the number of deposits made as a means of preserving the inventory's value for exchange at a later date when the member is ready to travel, while reducing the demand for inventory which is then available for exchange. Also, destination-specific factors such as regional health and safety concerns, the occurrence or threat of natural disasters and weather may decrease our members' desire to travel or exchange to a given destination, resulting in an increased supply of, but a decreased demand for, inventory from this destination. At other times, inventory may not be as available to the Interval system because owners are choosing to travel to their home resort/club system or otherwise not depositing with the Interval Network. In these instances, the demand for exchange and Getaway inventory may be greater than the inventory available. Where the supply and demand of inventory do not keep pace, transactions may decrease or we may elect to purchase additional inventory to fulfill the demand, which could negatively affect our profits and margin. Vacation Rental Revenue—Our success is dependent, in part, on revenue from vacation rentals and, if consumer demand for vacation rentals falls materially below historic levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. General economic conditions can negatively affect demand for our rentals of vacation accommodations to our members and other vacationers, leading us to decrease pricing and resulting in reduced revenue from vacation rentals. Failure of our management and rental business to secure a 18 Table of Contents sufficient number of vacationers for accommodations we manage could also result in increased obligations under guaranteed dollar amount or specified percentage provisions of certain hotel and resort management agreements and, ultimately, could affect our ability to obtain and maintain management agreements with vacation property owners. We also actively seek to provide vacation rental services to resorts participating in our exchange networks. Any material or prolonged decrease in demand and/or pricing for vacation rentals would further impact our revenue and, if materially below historical levels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Debt Covenants—Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments could limit our flexibility or otherwise restrict our business activities. As of December 31, 2013, we had total debt of approximately $253.0 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility. We also had an additional $247.0 million, net of any letters of credit usage, available for borrowing under the credit facility at that date. We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, including expanding our revolving credit facility by up to $200.0 million. Our indebtedness and the restrictive covenants contained in our credit facility may, among other things: •limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; •limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; •limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and •increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and •expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because our borrowings under our credit facility, are at variable interest rates. Key Personnel—Loss of one or more of our key personnel could adversely affect our relationships with third parties, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations require managerial and operational expertise as well as the maintenance of relationships with resort developers and other third parties. In particular, we are dependent upon the management skills and continued services of several members of our senior management team, including Craig M. Nash, our Chief Executive Officer, and Jeanette E. Marbert, our Chief Operating Officer; and with respect to the Management and Rental business, Kelvin M. Bloom, President and Chief Executive Officer of Aston Hotels & Resorts. The failure of such key personnel to continue to be active in management of our businesses could have a material adverse effect on relationships with third parties, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our agreements with a few developers allow the developer a limited termination right in the event that these individuals who are involved in the Interval Network are no longer with our company, in association with a material adverse impact on services. We do not maintain key employee insurance for any of our officers and employees. 19 Table of Contents Adverse Events and Trends in Key Vacation Destinations—Events and trends in key vacation destinations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial percentage of the vacation ownership resorts currently participating in Interval's exchange networks are located in Florida, Hawaii, Las Vegas, Mexico and Southern California, and a large number of vacation properties for which we provide management and rental services are located in Hawaii and Spain. Approximately $146.6 million, $127.0 million and $122.6 million of 2013, 2012 and 2011 revenue, respectively, which excludes the Management and Rental segment pass-through revenue, was generated from travel to properties in the top six locations as well as hotel, resort and homeowners' association management services performed in these locations. As a result, our ongoing ability to successfully process confirmed vacations for members, as well as our ability to find vacationers for accommodations managed or marketed by us, is largely dependent on the continued desirability of these areas as key vacation destinations. Any significant shift in travel demand for one or more of these key destinations or any adverse impact on transportation to them, such as decreased airlift, natural disasters, regional violence, terrorism or increased travel costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the same events that affect demand to one or more of these key destinations could significantly reduce the number of accommodations available for exchanges, Getaways or rental to vacationers, as well as the need for vacation rental and property management services generally. Accordingly, any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, the impact of which could be prolonged. Similarly, the effects of climate change may cause these locations to become less appealing to vacation owners as a result of temperature changes, more severe weather or changes to coastal areas which could adversely affect our business. International Operations—We operate in a number of international markets, which exposes us to additional risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Revenue from international operations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 was $96.3 million, $87.4 million, and $84.7 million, respectively. With VRI Europe, we expect these amounts to grow in 2014 while we continue to seek to invest in various international markets. In order to achieve widespread acceptance in international markets, we must continue to successfully tailor our services to the unique customs and cultures of relevant countries and markets. Learning the customs and cultures of various countries and markets can be difficult and costly, and the failure to do so could slow international growth. Operating in international markets also exposes us to additional risks, including, among others, changes in regulatory requirements, including taxation, limits on our ability to sell products and services and enforce intellectual property rights and difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with staffing and managing foreign operations. Our operations in international markets are exposed to potentially volatile movements in currency exchange rates. The economic impact of currency exchange rate movements on us is often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. These changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our financing, operating and hedging strategies. In particular, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations due to the effects of translation of local currency balances and results into U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in hedging transactions designed to reduce our exposure to foreign currency risk. We are also exposed to risks associated with the repatriation of cash from certain of our foreign operations to the United States where currency restrictions exist, such as Venezuela and Argentina, which limit our ability to immediately access cash through repatriations. As of December 31, 2013, we had $5.2 million of unrealized loss in other comprehensive income within stockholders' equity 20 Table of Contents pertaining to our Venezuela entity, until such time we sell or liquidate our investment. Furthermore, other countries in which we maintain operations may impose limitations on the repatriation of cash from such countries now or in the future. Any limitation on us to transfer significant cash across borders from our international operations pertaining to intercompany debt or intercompany trade payables, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions and Strategic Arrangements—We may experience financial and operational risks in connection with acquisitions and strategic arrangements. During 2013, our newly-formed subsidiary VRI Europe Limited purchased the European shared ownership resort management business of CLC and we also purchased the Aqua business in Hawaii. These acquisitions build on our earlier expansion of our Management and Rental segment with the February 2012 acquisition of VRI and the November 2010 acquisition of TPI. We intend to continue selectively pursuing other acquisitions. However, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete transactions on favorable terms. In addition, in the case of acquired businesses, we will need to: •successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with existing operations and systems; •maintain third party relationships previously established by acquired companies; •retain senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and •successfully manage acquisition-related strain on our and/or the acquired businesses' management, operations and financial resources. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any others encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and/or the assumption of contingent liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also intend to selectively enter into joint ventures and other strategic arrangements to provide new products and services complementary to those currently offered by our businesses. However, we may be unable to successfully enter into these arrangements on favorable terms or launch related products and services or such products and services may not gain market acceptance or be profitable. The failure to develop and execute any such initiatives on a cost-effective basis could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of Assets—Goodwill and other intangible and long-lived assets associated with businesses we acquire may become impaired which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The performance of the businesses that we have acquired or will acquire may not meet the financial projections anticipated at acquisition or may be impacted by one or more unfavorable events or circumstances. This could negatively affect the value of goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as long-lived assets, and may require us to test the applicable reporting unit and/or asset for impairment. If following the test, we determine that we should record an impairment charge, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Advances and Extensions of Credit—Our results may be adversely affected if third parties who receive loans, advances or other credit from us are unable to repay. In connection with obtaining or extending business relationships with our clients, on occasion we provide loans, advances and other credit. To the extent that these clients are unable to repay these amounts and they are not fully secured by collateral, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Sufficiency of Maintenance Fee Collection—Our continued management of homeowners' associations depends on their ability to collect sufficient maintenances fees. Our management fees from homeowners' associations are derived from maintenance fees levied on the owners by the associations. These maintenance fees also fund the operation, maintenance and improvements for the property. Many of the properties that we manage do not receive subsidies or resale services for foreclosed inventory from the developer. Once an association begins to experience a high default rate, if it is unable to foreclose and resell units to paying owners, the situation worsens as the maintenance fees on remaining owners continually increase to cover expenses. If the homeowners' associations that we manage are unable to levy and collect sufficient maintenance fees to cover the costs to operate and maintain the resort properties, such properties may be forced to close or file bankruptcy and may terminate our management. Control of Managed Resorts—Our management agreements with homeowners' associations may not be renewed if an entity that offers management services acquires sufficient interests in the resort. The homeowners' associations that engage us to manage their resorts are operated through an elected board. Entities that offer management services have acquired, or may acquire, a number of vacation interests that may be voted to influence the composition of the homeowners' association board. To the extent that an entity offering management services is able to influence the membership or decision-making of the homeowners' association board based on their ownership of interests at the resort, our management agreements may not be renewed and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. New Products and Services—We may not be able to achieve our strategic objectives through new products and initiatives. In order to support our strategic objectives, we have introduced new products and services and expect to continue to do so in the future. Launching new products and services involves a number of risks including the ability to achieve the anticipated level of market acceptance and to manage the costs and timeliness of rolling-out the product or service. If we are unable to gain market acceptance, experience substantial delays or are required to expend significantly more than expected, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Property Renovations—A significant decrease in the supply of available vacation rental accommodations due to ongoing property renovations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several of the vacation rental properties for which we provide management and rental services are expected to undergo significant renovations over the next few years. These renovations may result in a decrease in the supply of vacation rental accommodations available to vacationers during the applicable renovation periods. Furthermore, ongoing renovations at a particular property may negatively impact the desirability of the property as a vacation destination. A significant decrease in the supply of available vacation rental accommodations and the need for vacation rental services during renovation 22 Table of Contents periods, coupled with the inability to attract vacationers to properties undergoing renovations, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance and Changing Laws, Rules and Regulations—The failure of our businesses to comply with extensive regulatory requirements, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are subject to various laws, rules and regulations on a global basis, including those specific to the vacation ownership industry, as well as those applicable to businesses generally, such as consumer protection, securities and sales, use, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations. While we believe that the operations and practices of our businesses have been structured in a manner to ensure material compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities may take a contrary position. The failure of our businesses to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain required licenses or rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our businesses, including those related to the imposition of taxes, could decrease demand for the services offered by our businesses, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The vacation ownership industry is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and elsewhere, which generally requires vacation ownership resort developers to follow certain procedures in connection with the sale and marketing of vacation interests, including the filing of offering statements with relevant governmental authorities for approval and the delivery to prospective purchasers of certain information relating to the terms of the purchase and use, including rescission rights. Although not all of these regulations affect us directly, such regulations indirectly affect us because of the requirements placed on resort developers that participate in our exchange networks. As a result, any negative change in the regulatory environment within the vacation ownership industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our vacation rental operations are directly subject to a number of licensing requirements, as well as certain laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, particularly, those associated with hotel and resort management, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health, safety and accessibility of managed premises. The failure of our Management and Rental businesses to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain required licenses or rights, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maintenance of Systems and Infrastructure—Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructure. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructure may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure, including websites, information and related systems, call centers and distribution and fulfillment facilities. System interruption and any lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems and infrastructure may adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent our businesses from efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We also rely on third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in the systems and infrastructures of our businesses and/or third parties, 23 Table of Contents or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructure, could impair the ability of our businesses to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructure at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent our businesses from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While our businesses have backup systems for certain aspects of their operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Technology Projects—Business interruptions, cost overruns or project delays in connection with our undertaking of significant technology projects may materially adversely affect our business. We have several significant development projects related to our proprietary technology. We have committed sizable resources to these projects, which are expected to be phased in over several years. These projects are extremely complex, in part, because of the wide range of processes and the legacy systems involved. In 2010, upon launch of a major system project we experienced system instability which impacted the business operations. As we proceed with our existing projects, we are using controlled project plans and change control processes that we believe will provide for the adequate allocation of resources. However, a divergence from these may result in cost overruns or project delays. If the systems do not operate as expected, this could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. Privacy—The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements, or requirements imposed by credit card companies. In the processing of consumer transactions, our businesses receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us and our businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in business practices or privacy policies, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A company processing, storing, or transmitting payment card data must be compliant with Payment Card Industry-Data Security Standards, or PCI-DSS, or risk losing its ability to process credit card payments and being audited and/or fined. As of December 31, 2013, we believe our Interval business is compliant with these standards and our Aston, VRI and TPI businesses are working to become fully compliant, and we are evaluating our newly acquired businesses, VRI Europe and Aqua, for their compliance status. Failure to obtain or maintain PCI-DSS compliance could result in our inability to accept credit card payments or subject us to penalties and thus could have a material negative effect on our operations. Changes in these security standards may cause us to incur significant unanticipated expenses to meet new requirements. 24 Table of Contents Online Security Risks—We are subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft and the related requirements imposed by credit card companies. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage the reputation of our businesses, discourage potential users from trying our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information could cause interruptions in the operations of our businesses and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Security breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, undetected fraud, inadvertent violations of company policies or procedures or other developments could result in a compromise of information or a breach of the technology and security processes that are used to protect consumer transaction data. As a result, current security measures may not prevent any or all security breaches. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. Intellectual Property—We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in a meaningful manner or challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit our ability to control marketing, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, will likely be protracted and expensive and could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Takeover Defenses—Our rights plan, charter provisions and terms of our debt agreements may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of ILG. We have in place a stockholders' rights plan and certain charter provisions that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our company that are not approved by our board. In particular, our charter provides that stockholders may not act by written consent and that the board has the power to issue shares of preferred stock with such designation, powers, preferences, and rights as the board shall determine. The transactions that may be deterred, delayed or prevented might have allowed our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. In addition, under our senior credit facility, a change of control (as defined in the credit agreement) constitutes an event of default, entitling our lenders to terminate the facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. As a result, the provisions of this agreement also may affect the likelihood of a takeover or other change of control. 25 Table of Contents Dividends—We may not continue paying dividends at the same rate or at all. While we began paying quarterly dividends in 2012, we may be unable to continue to pay dividends at the current rate or at all based on covenants in our credit agreement or if we do not have sufficient surplus under Delaware law. Our board of directors may determine not to declare dividends if the board deems this action to be in our company's best interests. Discontinuing payment of dividends could change the manner, timing and/or ability to realize gains on investment in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 