ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision regarding any of our securities. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry We have a history of losses and we expect to continue to have additional net losses in the near future, which could cause the value of our securities to decline and may even cause our business to fail. We have generated net losses since our inception (March 16, 2006). Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $(8.3 million), $(6.7 million), $(12.3 million) and $(8.6 million), respectively. A large portion of our expenses are fixed, and accordingly, we will need to significantly increase our sales in order to achieve profitability. We anticipate that we will continue to generate losses in the near future, and the rate at which we will incur losses could continue or even increase in future periods from current levels as a result of any of the following: • We may be unable to increase sales sufficiently to recognize economies of scale; • We may be unable to successfully expand into other private security markets or achieve broad brand recognition for our products; • We may be unable to reduce our costs or experience unanticipated costs or expenses in connection with our current development, marketing and manufacturing plans; • We may encounter technological challenges in connection with the development, introduction or manufacturing of enhancements to our existing vehicles or in the addition of new products; and • We may be unable to obtain sufficient components or materials used in our products due to capital constraints, which could adversely effect our sales, our reputation and credibility. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through equity and debt financing. Because we anticipate additional net losses in the near future, we believe we will require additional financings. We have filed a registration statement to raise additional capital in a follow-on public offering but cannot guarantee that such offering will be consummated in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to arrange future financing from third parties will depend upon our perceived performance and market conditions. Our inability to raise additional working capital on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all would materially and adversely impact our business and operations, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. It could also lead to the reduction or suspension of our operations and ultimately force us to go out of business. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our securities will have little or no value. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm that accompanies our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 contains a going concern qualification in which such firm expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition to our history of losses, our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $(45.1 million) and $(33.1 million), respectively. At December 31, 2010, we had a working capital deficit of $(15.1 million) and cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash) of $133,861. While management plans to continue to implement a cost reduction strategy and is seeking to increase our cash flow from operations, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. Since inception, we have used cash in excess of operating revenues. Until management achieves its cost reduction strategy and is able to generate significantly higher sales to realize the benefits of the strategy, and 14 Table of Contents significantly increase our cash flow from operations, we will require additional capital to meet our working capital requirements, achieve our expansion plans and fund our research and development. We plan to continue to raise additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements, but cannot guarantee we will be successful in this regard. If we fail as a going concern, our shares of common stock will hold little or no value. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Ki Nam, our Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of our Board of Directors, who has significantly contributed to the design and manufacturing of substantially all of our products and Kelly Anderson, our Chief Financial Officer. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Our future growth is dependent upon the public’s willingness to accept electric vehicles. Our future growth is largely dependent upon the adoption by the public of, and we are subject to an elevated risk of any reduced demand for, alternative fuel vehicles in general and electric vehicles in particular. If the market for electric vehicles does not develop as we expect or develops more slowly than we expect, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be harmed. The market for electric vehicles is relatively new, rapidly evolving, characterized by rapidly changing technologies, price competition, additional competitors, evolving government regulation and industry standards, frequent new vehicle announcements and changing consumer demands and behaviors. Factors that may influence the adoption of electric vehicles, include: • perceptions about electric vehicle quality, safety (in particular with respect to lithium-ion battery packs), design, performance and cost, especially if adverse events or accidents occur that are linked to the quality or safety of electric vehicles; • perceptions about vehicle safety in general, and in particular safety issues that may be attributed to the use of advanced technology; • the range over which electric vehicles may be driven on a single battery charge; • the decline of an electric vehicle’s range resulting from deterioration over time in the battery’s ability to hold a charge; • improvements in the fuel economy of the internal combustion engine; • volatility in the cost of oil and gasoline; • access to charging stations, standardization of electric vehicle charging systems and consumers’ perceptions about convenience and cost to charge an electric vehicle; • concerns that extreme temperatures, cold or hot, could reduce the performance of the electric vehicle or life of the batteries included in such vehicles; • the availability of tax and other governmental incentives to purchase and operate electric vehicles or future regulation requiring increased use of nonpolluting vehicles; and • macroeconomic factors. Additionally, we may become subject to regulations that may require us to alter the design of our vehicles, which could negatively impact the public’s interest in our vehicles or increase the cost to manufacture such 15 Table of Contents vehicles. The influence of any of the factors described above may cause current or potential customers not to purchase our electric vehicles, which would materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. We may become subject to product liability claims, which could harm our financial condition and liquidity if we are not able to successfully defend or insure against such claims. The motor vehicle industry in general has historically been subject to a large number of product liability claims in recent years due to the nature of personal injuries that can result from accidents or malfunctions. We face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event people fail to use our vehicles for their intended purposes or if owners fail to use or care for them properly. These accidents can also occur as a result of user error or inadequate training, through no fault of the manufacturer of the vehicle. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay a substantial monetary award. We maintain product liability insurance for all our vehicles with annual limits of approximately $2.0 million on a claims made basis, but we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient to cover all potential product liability claims. Any lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages either in excess of our coverage, or outside of our coverage, may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may not be able to secure additional product liability insurance coverage on commercially acceptable terms or at reasonable costs when needed, particularly if we do face liability for our products and are forced to make a claim under our policy. In addition, a product liability claim could generate substantial negative publicity about our vehicles and business, and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other future vehicles, which would have a material adverse effect on our brand, business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. While our products are tested for quality, our products nevertheless may fail to meet customer expectations from time-to-time. Also, not all defects are immediately detectible. Failures could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing. In either case, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation and pay significant damages. As a result, any of these claims, whether or not valid or successfully prosecuted, could have a substantial, adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, although we currently have product liability insurance, the amount of damages awarded against us in such a lawsuit may exceed the policy limits of such insurance. Further, in some cases, product redesigns and/or rework may be required to correct a defect and such occurrences could adversely impact future business with affected customers. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected by any unexpected significant warranty costs. If our suppliers fail to consistently provide high quality parts and components or fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our brand image could be harmed due to negative publicity. We rely on independent suppliers to source most of our T3 Series products and to conduct most of the manufacturing process for our products. We have to rely on our suppliers to continue to provide the highest quality electric vehicles and operate with integrity. Because we do not control the operations of our suppliers, we cannot guarantee their compliance with ethical business practices, such as environmental responsibility, fair wage practices, and compliance with child labor laws, among others. A lack of demonstrated compliance could lead us to seek alternative suppliers, which could increase our costs and result in delayed delivery of our products, product shortages or other disruptions of our operations. If our suppliers do not comply with laws or fail to control the quality of products supplied, it could result in negative publicity for us and diminish our brand. If the purchasers of our vehicles customize our vehicles or change the charging infrastructure with aftermarket products, the vehicle may not operate properly, which could adversely impact our reputation and harm our business. Purchasers of our vehicles may seek to modify their existing vehicles, which could adversely impact the performance of the vehicles and could compromise vehicle safety systems. Also, if customers customize their vehicles with after-market parts or change the charging infrastructure, such parts may compromise driver safety. 16 Table of Contents We have not tested, nor do we endorse such changes or parts. Such unauthorized modifications could reduce the safety of our vehicles and any injuries resulting from such modifications could result in adverse publicity, which would negatively affect our brand and harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption in financial markets could impair our revenues. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. These conditions have already impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. We have been, and may continue to be, impacted by these economic developments, both domestically and globally. We believe that the current tightening of credit in financial markets has adversely affected the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, and could result in a decrease in orders for our products and services. Similarly, the downturn has resulted in budgetary constraints and delays in government funding, which we believe has also adversely affected the ability of certain law enforcement agencies and police departments to fund additional capital equipment purchases. These economic conditions may negatively impact us as some of our customers defer purchasing decisions, thereby lengthening our sales cycles. Our customers’ ability to pay for our products and services may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. Our revenues in fiscal year 2010 were relatively flat as compared to 2009. Net revenues in 2009 decreased $2.9 million from 2008 due in part to many of the foregoing factors, which factors may continue to affect our revenues and operating results in future periods. Our markets are highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, or demonstrate a perceived advantage for our products over traditional means of transportation, our business will be adversely affected. We compete with other manufacturers of electric vehicles, as well as other traditional modes of transportation, such as bicycles, cars and motorcycles. The industries in which we operate include competitors who are larger, better financed and better known than we are and may compete more effectively than we can. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must keep pace with changing technologies and customer preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our products from those of our competitors, our revenues may decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new personal mobility products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our sales and market share. The personal mobility industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of technologies, products and services. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the personal mobility industry, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results or gaining broad market acceptance for our products. Our significant expenditures on research and development may not reap corresponding benefits. A variety of competing personal mobility technologies that other companies may develop could prove to be more cost-effective and have better performance than our products. Therefore, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new personal mobility products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and result in a decline in our market share and revenue. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our personal mobility products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. 17 Table of Contents We have expanded our marketing, distribution, and sales efforts to include the Middle East, Canada, Mexico, South Africa, South America and Europe. As a result, we are exposed to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors who are knowledgeable about and, can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; and • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights. Our prospects for sales growth and profitability will be adversely affected if we have product replacement issues, or if we otherwise fail to maintain product quality and product performance at an acceptable cost. We will be able to expand our net sales and to achieve, sustain and enhance profitable operations only if we succeed in maintaining the quality and performance of our products. If we should not be able to produce high-quality products at standard manufacturing rates and yields, unit costs may be higher. In recent periods, we have occasionally had to replace components of existing products. For instance, we are voluntarily replacing external chargers due to the fact that the chargers could fail over time. This may adversely affect our reputation with potential customers. We have increased our warranty reserve accordingly. Because the establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of the number of future claims and the cost to settle claims, our ultimate losses may exceed our warranty reserve. Future increases to the warranty reserve would have an adverse effect on our profitability in the periods in which we make such increases. Additional product replacement issues could materially affect our business as it could increase cost of sales as a result of increased warranty service costs, reduce customer confidence on our products, reduce sales revenue, or increase product liability claims. The failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields could adversely affect our business. We may have difficulty achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of our products which could lead to higher costs, a loss of customers or delay in market acceptance of our products. Slight impurities or defects can cause significant difficulties, particularly in connection with the production of a new product, the adoption of a new manufacturing process or any expansion of our manufacturing capacity and related transitions. Yields below our target levels can negatively impact our gross profit. From time to time we engage in related party transactions. There are no assurances that these transactions are fair to our company. From time to time we enter into transactions with related parties which include the purchase from or sale to of products and services from related parties, and advancing these related parties significant sums as prepayments for future goods or services and for working capital requirements, among other transactions, including advances from related parties. Our Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing our related party transactions. Notwithstanding these policies, we cannot assure you that in every instance the terms of the transactions with these various related parties are on terms as fair as we might receive from or extend to third parties. In addition, related party transactions in general have a higher potential for conflicts of interest than third-party transactions, could result in significant losses to our company and may impair investor confidence, which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. We are dependent on a few single sourced third party manufacturers. Any interruption in our relationships with these parties may adversely affect our business. Most components used in our products are purchased from outside sources. Certain components are purchased from single sourced suppliers. These single source suppliers provide components used on our products and include 18 Table of Contents domestic suppliers such as American Made, Performance Composites, Imperial Electric and Santa Fe Mold. These suppliers provide the frame, fiberglass body, electric motor, and various small plastic parts, respectively. The failure of any such supplier to meet its commitment on schedule could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition prospects. If a sole-source supplier were to go out of business or otherwise become unable to meet its supply commitments, the process of locating and qualifying alternate sources could require up to several months, during which time our production could be delayed. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition prospects. For instance, our revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2010 were adversely affected by vendor supply issues, which we believe was due to reduced vendor staffing and their inability to respond to our orders coupled with our inadequate cash flow which resulted in certain vendors requiring terms to be cash in advance. Our dependence on third party suppliers for key components of our devices could delay shipment of our products and reduce our sales. We depend on certain domestic and foreign suppliers for the delivery of components used in the assembly of our products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers creates risks related to our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components or subassemblies and reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components and sub-assemblies. Specifically, we depend on suppliers of batteries and battery components and other miscellaneous customer parts for our products. We also do not have long-term agreements with any of our suppliers and there is no guarantee that supply will not be interrupted. Any interruption of supply for any material components of our products could significantly delay the shipment of our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Many of our customers have fluctuating budgets, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our results of operations. Customers for our products include, and may include in the future, federal, state, municipal, foreign and military, law enforcement and other governmental agencies. Government tax revenues and budgetary constraints, which fluctuate from time to time, can affect budgetary allocations for these customers. Many domestic and foreign government agencies have in the past experienced budget deficits that have led to decreased spending in defense, law enforcement and other military and security areas. Our results of operations may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations because of these and other factors affecting military, law enforcement and other governmental spending. A reduction of funding for federal, state, municipal, foreign and other governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products and our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our resources may be insufficient to manage the demands imposed by our growth. We have rapidly expanded our operations, and this growth has placed significant demands on our management, administrative, operating and financial resources. The continued growth of our customer base and the geographic markets served can be expected to continue to place a significant strain on our resources. In addition, we cannot easily identify and hire personnel qualified both in the provision and marketing of our products. Our future performance and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional management and other key personnel, and our ability to implement successful enhancements to our management, marketing and sales team and technology personnel. Our success is dependent on protecting our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections to protect our proprietary technology. Our success will, in part, depend on our ability to obtain trademarks and patents. We license one patent and hold three trademarks registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and have five patent applications filed. We cannot assure you that these trademarks and patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that the rights granted under those registrations will provide competitive advantages to us. 19 Table of Contents We also rely on trade secrets and new technologies to maintain our competitive position, but we cannot be certain that others will not gain access to these trade secrets. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We may be exposed to liability for infringing intellectual property rights of other companies. Our success will, in part, depend on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Although we have conducted searches and are not aware of any patents and trademarks which our products or their use might infringe, we cannot be certain that infringement has not or will not occur. We could incur substantial costs, in addition to the great amount of time lost, in defending any patent or trademark infringement suits or in asserting any patent or trademark rights, in a suit with another party. Our officers and directors own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which will enable them to influence many significant corporate actions and in certain circumstances may prevent a change in control that would otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Our directors and executive officers controlled at least 68.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock that are entitled to vote on all corporate actions as of December 31, 2010. In particular, our controlling stockholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ki Nam, together with his children, owns 57.2% of the outstanding shares of common stock and the Vision Parties own 11.8% of the outstanding shares of common stock. The Vision Parties and Mr. Nam could have a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most of our corporate actions. This control could delay, defer, or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover, or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our shareholders and us. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating Ownership of Our Securities If a significant public market for our common stock develops, we expect to experience volatility in the price of our common stock. This may result in substantial losses to investors if they are unable to sell their shares at or above their purchase price. If a significant public market for our common stock develops, we expect the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially for the foreseeable future, primarily due to a number of factors, including: • our status as a company with a limited operating history and limited revenues to date, which may make risk-averse investors more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the shares of a seasoned issuer in the event of negative news or lack of progress; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • the timing and development of our products; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • liquidity; • actions by our stockholders; • changes in our cash flow from operations or earning estimates; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • our capital commitments; and • the loss of any of our key management personnel. 20 Table of Contents In addition, the financial markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of the securities of technology companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent revenues and earnings, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future, some of which may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The sale or attempted sale of a large amount of common stock into the market may also have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, which may reduce your return on an investment in our common stock. We plan to use all of our earnings; to the extent we have earnings, to fund our operations. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee that we will, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution as a dividend to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, any return on your investment would derive from an increase in the price of our stock, which may or may not occur. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price. As of December 31, 2010, 50,658,462 shares of common stock, 11,502,563 shares of preferred stock, and warrants for the purchase of 10,301,369, 120,000 and 274,774 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.70, $1.54 and $1.65 per share, respectively, are outstanding. In addition, we intend to file a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, to register approximately 10,211,395 shares of our common stock underlying options granted or to be granted to our officers, directors, employees and consultants. These shares, if issued in accordance with these plans, will be eligible for immediate sale in the public market, subject to volume limitations. As of December 31, 2010, there were 6,490,895 options outstanding, of which 3,248,371 were exercisable. We have also filed a registration statement in connection with a proposed public offering to raise approximately $8.75 million, which will entail the issuance of a large number of freely tradable additional shares of common stock and will result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, we intend to enter into a registration rights agreement with the Vision Entities and Ki Nam to register all of the common stock held by them or issuable upon exercise or conversion of any of their securities. If we or our stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. The sale of a large number of shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. We may raise additional capital through a securities offering that could dilute your ownership interest and voting rights. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. After the conversion of all of our Series A convertible preferred stock our board of directors will be entitled to issue up to 20,000,000 additional shares of preferred stock with rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our common stock. The power of the board of directors to issue additional securities is generally not subject to stockholder approval. We will require substantial additional working capital to fund our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or convertible debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock by our board of directors will also have the effect of diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Our incorporation documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also limit the market price of your stock, which may inhibit an attempt by our stockholders to change our direction or management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Some of these provisions: • authorize our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to, or imposed upon, the preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series without further action by our stockholders; • prohibit stockholders holding less than 25% of the outstanding voting shares from calling special meetings; and • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us, which may prevent or frustrate any attempt by our stockholders to change our management or the direction in which we are heading. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. The market for our stock is subject to rules relating to low-priced stock (“Penny Stock”) which may limit our ability to raise capital. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board Market and is subject to the “penny stock rules” adopted pursuant to Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In general, the penny stock rules apply to companies not listed on a national stock exchange whose common stock trades at less than $0.50 per share or which have tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). Such rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade “penny stock” on behalf of persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document, quote information, broker’s commission information and rights and remedies available to investors in penny stocks. Many brokers have decided not to trade “penny stock” because of the requirements of the penny stock rules, and as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. We have applied to list our common stock and certain other securities on the NYSE Amex, but we cannot assure you that such listing will be complete. As such, our common stock may not still be deemed as “penny stock.” The “penny stock rules,” therefore, may have an adverse impact on the market for our common stock and may affect our ability to raise additional capital if we decide to do so. We will incur increased costs and compliance risks as a result of becoming a public company. We are a public company and we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We will incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). We expect these rules and regulations, in particular Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Like many smaller public companies, we face a significant impact from required compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires management of public companies to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over 22 Table of Contents financial reporting. The SEC has adopted rules implementing Section 404 for public companies as well as disclosure requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively meet all of the requirements of Section 404 as currently known to us on a timely basis or at all. Any failure to implement effectively new or improved internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Our shares are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, and may be thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Our Common Stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol, “TMMM.” Through the listing process on the OTC Bulletin Board (“Listing”), we essentially went public without the typical initial public offering procedures which usually include a large selling group of broker-dealers who may provide market support after going public. Thus, we must undertake efforts to develop market recognition for us and support for our shares of Common Stock in the public market. The price and volume for our Common Stock that will develop after the Registration and Listing cannot be assured. The numbers of persons interested in purchasing our Common Stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days, weeks or months when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained or not diminish. We have applied to list our securities on the NYSE Amex, but there can be no assurance that such listing will be approved or will be able to be maintained if it is approved. While we are trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, the trading volume we will develop may be limited by the fact that many major institutional investment funds, including mutual funds, as well as individual investors follow a policy of not investing in OTC Bulletin Board stocks and certain major brokerage firms restrict their brokers from recommending OTC Bulletin Board stocks because they are considered speculative, volatile and thinly traded. There is no guarantee that our securities will be listed on AMEX. We have applied to list our common stock and certain other securities on the AMEX. Such listing is dependent upon the completion of the proposed public offering and the reverse stock split among other things. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy or maintain such listing requirements, and accordingly, our securities may not be listed on AMEX in the near future or at all. Our liquidity of our common stock and market capitalization could be adversely affected by the reverse stock split. Our stockholders have approved the reverse stock split so that we can meet the minimum share price requirements of AMEX. If consummated by our board of directors, the reverse stock split may be viewed negatively by the market and, consequently, can lead to a decrease in our price per share and overall market capitalization. If the per share market price does not increase proportionately as a result of the reverse stock split, then our value as measured by our market capitalization will be reduced, perhaps significantly. The market price for our common stock may be particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly traded public float, limited operating history and lack of profits which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchased the shares may not be indicative of the price of the common stock that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; • announcements of new products or services by us; • fluctuations in interest rates; 23 Table of Contents • significant sales of our common stock; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and • news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. The stock markets in general and the market prices for penny stock companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause our common stock price to fall. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect our revenues or our expenses in any particular quarter. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • market acceptance of our products and those of our competitors; • our ability to attract and retain key personnel; • development of new designs and technologies; and • our ability to manage our anticipated growth and expansion. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of our common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Any substantial sale of our Common Stock pursuant to Rule 144 may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Certain prior investors who purchased our securities, consisting of convertible notes, preferred stock, common stock and warrants to purchase common stock, from December 2007 through March 2010, have anti-dilution rights with respect to their shares of our common stock (including shares underlying warrants). If future issuances of our common stock trigger these anti-dilution rights, holders of our common stock would have their investments diluted. Certain security holders who purchased our units consisting of shares of our preferred stock, common stock and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock have anti-dilution rights, and in particular, price-based anti-dilution rights. Except for certain exceptions such as issuances relating to employee stock option exercises, in the event that we sell common stock for less than $0.50 per share or issue securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock at a conversion price or exercise price less than $0.50 per share (a “Dilutive Issuance”), then we are required to issue a number of additional shares of common stock to each unit purchaser of our preferred stock, without additional consideration Our convertible note with Immersive converts into our common stock at $1.54 per share. In the event we sell common stock for lower than $1.54 per share, our conversion price will be calculated in accordance with Dilutive Issuance calculations. The number of additional shares to be issued will be equal to the product of the purchaser’s subscription amount multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of common stock sold and issued at the closing of such Dilutive Issuance plus the number of 24 Table of Contents shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares of common stock sold and issued at the closing of such Dilutive Issuance would purchase at $0.50 per share, and the denominator of which is the number of shares of common stock issued and outstanding on the date of such Dilutive Issuance plus the number of additional shares of common stock sold and issued at the closing of such Dilutive Issuance. We are anticipating to obtain agreements to convert all of our outstanding preferred stock and amendments to our warrants that remove price-based, anti-dilution provisions. In the event we issue warrants to purchase our common stock below $0.70 per share, our Class G warrant holders will be allowed to reset the price of their warrants (for the first year after the issuance, the price will be reset to the price of the new issuance and for issuances after the 12th month and before the 24th month, the price will be reset in accordance with Dilutive Issuance calculations.). We cannot assure you that we will be successful. In the event that we are not successful, other holders of our common stock, including purchases of units in the proposed offering, would be diluted to a greater extent than they would be if the anti-dilution provision were not triggered. The holders of the convertible note will convert such notes into common shares upon the close of the proposed offering. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors, which could result in substantial expenditures. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on behalf of our company. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup. 25 Table of Contents 