Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our concentration in non-owner occupied residential real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At September 30, 2011, $40.4 million, or 23.8% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio and 11.1% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At September 30, 2011, we had 15 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, each having an outstanding balance over $500,000, with aggregate outstanding balances of $16.1 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. At September 30, 2011, non-performing non-owner occupied residential loans amounted to $2.5 million. Non-owner occupied residential properties held as real estate owned amounted to $245,000 at September 30, 2011. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” 16 Our recent emphasis on commercial real estate lending and commercial business lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At September 30, 2011, $114.1 million, or 31.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans. Subject to market conditions, we intend to increase our origination of these loans. Commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial real estate loans also typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers both at origination and at maturity because many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully-amortizing, but result in “balloon” balances at maturity. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At September 30, 2011, non-performing commercial business loans and non-performing commercial real estate loans totaled $101,000 and $2.1 million, respectively. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” Our unseasoned commercial real estate loan and commercial business loan portfolios may expose us to increased lending risks. A significant amount of our commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. Furthermore, these loans have not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could adversely affect our future performance. Our construction loan and land and land development loan portfolios may expose us to increased credit risk. At September 30, 2011, $25.1 million, or 6.9% of our loan portfolio consisted of construction loans, and land and land development loans, and $6.3 million, or 50.0% of the construction loan portfolio, consisted of speculative construction loans at that date. While recently the demand for construction loans has decreased significantly due to the decline in the housing market, historically, construction loans, including speculative construction loans, have been a material part of our loan portfolio. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. Subject to market conditions, we intend to continue to emphasize the origination of construction loans and land and land development loans. These loan types generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operation or sale of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Furthermore, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses through future charges to income as the portfolio of these types of loans grows, which would hurt our earnings. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” If an other-than-temporary-impairment is recorded in connection with our investment portfolio it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of U.S. government agency and sponsored enterprises securities, mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations issued by U.S. government agencies and sponsored enterprises, municipal bonds and privately-issued collateralized mortgage obligations. We must evaluate these securities for other-than-temporary impairment loss (“OTTI”) on a periodic basis. During 2010 we recognized an other-than-temporary write-down charge to earnings of $60,000 representing the total amortized cost of a privately-issued asset-backed security. While we have no remaining privately-issued asset-backed securities, the privately-issued collateralized mortgage obligations exhibit signs of weakness, which may necessitate an OTTI charge in the future should the financial condition of the pools deteriorate further. Also, given the current economic environment and possible further deterioration in economic conditions, we may need to record an OTTI charge for our other investments should the issuers of those securities experience financial difficulties. Any future OTTI charges could significantly impact our earnings. 17 The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is currently operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and in the local markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in financial and real estate values. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales, and an increase in the financial stress on borrowers stemming from an uncertain economic environment, including rising unemployment, could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely impact the repayment of its loan portfolio. The overall deterioration in economic conditions also could subject the Company to increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, a further deterioration in local economic conditions, could result in increases in loan delinquencies and problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the value of the collateral securing loans in the Bank’s portfolio. Also, a further deterioration in local economic conditions could drive the level of loan losses beyond the level the Company has provided for loan loss allowance, which could necessitate an increase in the Company’s provision for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. Additionally, the demand for the Company’s products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact the Company’s liquidity and revenues. Changing interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Also, interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely hurt our income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Risk Management — Interest Rate Risk Management.” If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At September 30, 2011, our goodwill totaled $5.9 million. While we have recorded no such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which formerly regulated the Bank, was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Savings and loan holding companies, including First Savings Financial Group, are now regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board System. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions has been reduced as well and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as First Savings Bank, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in First Savings Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the current economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $217,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.1 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within our primary market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held approximately 12.33%, 1.26%, 17.88%, 79.78% and 8.25% of the FDIC-insured deposits in Clark, Floyd, Harrison, Crawford and Washington Counties, Indiana, respectively. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area. See “Item 1. Business — Market Area” and “Item 1. Business — Competition” for more information about our primary market area and the competition we face. 19 We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. First Savings Financial Group is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of First Savings Bank rather than for holders of First Savings Financial Group common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. If our regulators require us to charge-off loans or increase our allowance for loan losses, our earnings would suffer. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. For a further discussion, see “Item 1. Business – Regulation and Supervision.” Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 