Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Business – Our concentration in non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Risk Management – Analysis of Nonperforming and Classified Assets.” Since 2005, when we hired a new President and Chief Executive Officer, we have de-emphasized non-owner occupied residential mortgage lending and have focused, and intend to continue to focus, our residential mortgage lending primarily on originating residential mortgage loans secured by owner-occupied properties. Our residential lending policies and procedures conform to the secondary market guidelines. We generally offer a mix of adjustable rate mortgage loans and fixed-rate mortgage loans with terms of 10 to 30 years. Borrower demand for adjustable-rate loans compared to fixed-rate loans is a function of the level of interest rates, the expectations of changes in the level of interest rates, and the difference between the interest rates and loan fees offered for fixed-rate mortgage loans as compared to an initially discounted interest rate and loan fees for multi-year adjustable-rate mortgages. The relative amount of fixed-rate mortgage loans and adjustable-rate mortgage loans that can be originated at any time is largely determined by the demand for each in a competitive environment. The loan fees, interest rates and other provisions of mortgage loans are determined by us based on our own pricing criteria and competitive market conditions. Interest rates and payments on our adjustable-rate mortgage loans generally adjust annually after an initial fixed period that typically ranges from one to five years. Interest rates and payments on our adjustable-rate loans generally are adjusted to a rate typically equal to a margin above the one year U.S. Treasury index. The maximum amount by which the interest rate may be increased or decreased is generally one percentage point per adjustment period and the lifetime interest rate cap is generally six percentage points over the initial interest rate of the loan. However, a portion of the adjustable-rate mortgage loan portfolio has a maximum amount by which the interest rate may be increased or decreased of two percentage points per adjustment period and a lifetime interest rate cap generally of six percentage points over the initial interest rate of the loan. While one- to four-family residential real estate loans are normally originated with up to 30-year terms, such loans typically remain outstanding for substantially shorter periods because borrowers often prepay their loans in full either upon sale of the property pledged as security or upon refinancing the original loan. Therefore, average loan maturity is a function of, among other factors, the level of purchase and sale activity in the real estate market, prevailing interest rates and the interest rates payable on outstanding loans on a regular basis. We do not offer loans with negative amortization and generally do not offer interest-only loans. We generally do not make conventional loans with loan-to-value ratios exceeding 80%, including that for non-owner occupied residential real estate loans whose loan-to-value ratios generally may not exceed 75%, or 65% where the borrower has more than five non-owner occupied loans outstanding. Non-owner occupied loans originated before 2005, however, were generally originated with loan-to-value ratios up to 80%. Loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% generally require private mortgage insurance. However, the total balance of residential mortgage loans secured by one- to four-family residential properties with loan-to-value ratios exceeding 90% and without private mortgage insurance or government guaranty at September 30, 2010 was $2.8 million, including $2.0 million acquired in the acquisition of Community First. We generally require all properties securing mortgage loans to be appraised by a board-approved independent appraiser. We also generally require title insurance on all first mortgage loans with principal balances of $250,000 or more. Borrowers must obtain hazard insurance, and flood insurance is required for all loans located flood hazard areas. At September 30, 2010, our largest one- to four-family residential loan had an outstanding balance of $2.3 million. This loan, which was originated in November 2007 and is secured by 46 non-owner occupied properties, was performing in accordance with its original terms at September 30, 2010. 3 Commercial Real Estate Loans. We offer fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage loans secured by commercial real estate. Our commercial real estate loans are generally secured by small to moderately-sized office, retail and industrial properties located in our primary market area and are typically made to small business owners and professionals such as attorneys and accountants. We originate fixed-rate commercial real estate loans, generally with terms up to five years and payments based on an amortization schedule of 15 to 20 years, resulting in “balloon” balances at maturity. We also offer adjustable-rate commercial real estate loans, generally with terms up to five years and with interest rates typically equal to a margin above the prime lending rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Loans are secured by first mortgages, generally are originated with a maximum loan-to-value ratio of 80% and often require specified debt service coverage ratios depending on the characteristics of the project. Rates and other terms on such loans generally depend on our assessment of credit risk after considering such factors as the borrower’s financial condition and credit history, loan-to-value ratio, debt service coverage ratio and other factors. At September 30, 2010, our largest commercial real estate loan had an outstanding balance of $2.3 million. This loan, which was originated in August 2008 and is secured by a retail powersport vehicles dealership facility, was performing in accordance with its original terms at September 30, 2010. Construction Loans. We originate construction loans for one-to four-family homes and, to a lesser extent, commercial properties such as small industrial buildings, warehouses, retail shops and office units. Construction loans are typically for a term of 12 months with monthly interest only payments. Except for speculative loans, discussed below, repayment of construction loans typically comes from the proceeds of a permanent mortgage loan for which a commitment is typically in place when the construction loan is originated. We originate construction loans to a limited group of well-established builders in our primary market area and we limit the number of projects with each builder. Interest rates on these loans are generally tied to the prime lending rate. Construction loans, other than land development loans, generally will not exceed the lesser of 80% of the appraised value or 90% of the direct costs, excluding items such as developer fees, operating deficits or other items that do not relate to the direct development of the project. Generally, commercial construction loans require the personal guarantee of the owners of the business. We also offer construction loans for the financing of pre-sold homes, which convert into permanent loans at the end of the construction period. Such loans generally have a six-month construction period with interest only payments due monthly, followed by an automatic conversion to a 15-year to 30-year permanent loan with monthly payments of principal and interest. Occasionally, a construction loan to a builder of a speculative home will be converted to a permanent loan if the builder has not secured a buyer within a limited period of time after the completion of the home. We generally disburse funds on a percentage-of-completion basis following an inspection by a third party inspector. We also originate speculative construction loans to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of origination. At September 30, 2010, we had approved commitments for speculative construction loans of $5.7 million, of which $4.2 million was outstanding. We require a maximum loan-to-value ratio of 80% for speculative construction loans. At September 30, 2010, our largest construction loan relationship was for a commitment of $2.0 million, of which $1.1 million was outstanding. This relationship was performing according to its original terms at September 30, 2010. Land and Land Development Loans. On a limited basis, we originate loans to developers for the purpose of developing vacant land in our primary market area, typically for residential subdivisions. Land development loans are generally interest-only loans for a term of 18 to 24 months. We generally require a maximum loan-to-value ratio of 75% of the appraisal market value upon completion of the project. We generally do not require any cash equity from the borrower if there is sufficient indicated equity in the collateral property. Development plats and cost verification documents are required from borrowers before approving and closing the loan. Our loan officers are required to personally visit the proposed development site and the sites of competing developments. We also originate loans to individuals secured by undeveloped land held for investment purposes. At September 30, 2010, our largest land development loan had an outstanding balance of $1.7 million. This loan was performing in accordance with its original terms at September 30, 2010. 4 Multi-Family Real Estate Loans. We offer multi-family mortgage loans that are generally secured by properties in our primary market area. Multi-family loans are secured by first mortgages and generally are originated with a maximum loan-to-value ratio of 80% and generally require specified debt service coverage ratios depending on the characteristics of the project. Rates and other terms on such loans generally depend on our assessment of the credit risk after considering such factors as the borrower’s financial condition and credit history, loan-to-value ratio, debt service coverage ratio and other factors. At September 30, 2010, our largest multi-family mortgage loan had an outstanding balance of $3.1 million. This loan, which was originated in October 2008, was performing in accordance with its original terms at September 30, 2010. Consumer Loans. Although we offer a variety of consumer loans, our consumer loan portfolio consists primarily of home equity loans, both fixed-rate amortizing term loans with terms up to 15 years and adjustable rate lines of credit with interest rates equal to a margin above the prime lending rate. Consumer loans typically have shorter maturities and higher interest rates than traditional one-to four-family lending. We typically do not make home equity loans with loan-to-value ratios exceeding 90%, including any first mortgage loan balance. We also offer auto and truck loans, personal loans and small boat loans. The procedures for underwriting consumer loans include an assessment of the applicant’s payment history on other debts and ability to meet existing obligations and payments on the proposed loan. Although the applicant’s creditworthiness is a primary consideration, the underwriting process also includes a comparison of the value of the collateral, if any, to the proposed loan amount. At September 30, 2010, our largest consumer loan was a home equity line of credit with a commitment of $1.0 million, of which $1.0 million was outstanding. This loan, which was originated in May 2009 and is secured by a second mortgage on a personal residence, was performing in accordance with its original terms at September 30, 2010. Commercial Business Loans. We typically offer commercial business loans to small businesses located in our primary market area. Commercial business loans are generally secured by equipment and general business assets. Key loan terms and covenants vary depending on the collateral, the borrower’s financial condition, credit history and other relevant factors, and personal guarantees are typically required as part of the loan commitment. At September 30, 2010, our largest commercial business loan was for a commitment of $4.5 million, of which $3.4 million was outstanding. This loan, which was originated in March 2009 and is secured by contract assignments and accounts receivable, was performing in accordance with its original terms at September 30, 2010. Loan Underwriting Risks Adjustable-Rate Loans. While we anticipate that adjustable-rate loans will better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed-rate mortgages, an increased monthly mortgage payment required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected in a high interest rate environment. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans make our asset base more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. Non-Owner Occupied Residential Real Estate Loans. Loans secured by rental properties represent a unique credit risk to us and, as a result, we adhere to special underwriting guidelines. Of primary concern in non-owner occupied real estate lending is the consistency of rental income of the property. Payments on loans secured by rental properties often depend on the maintenance of the property and the payment of rent by its tenants. Payments on loans secured by rental properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flows on rental properties, we require borrowers and loan guarantors, if any, to provide annual financial statements and we consider and review a rental income cash flow analysis of the borrower and consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability, and the value of the underlying property. We generally require collateral on these loans to be a first mortgage along with an assignment of rents and leases. Until recently, if the borrower had multiple loans for rental properties with us, the loans were not cross-collateralized. If the borrower holds loans on more than four rental properties, a loan officer or collection officer is generally required to inspect these properties annually to determine if they are being properly maintained and rented. Recently, we generally have limited these loan relationships to an aggregate total of $500,000. 5 Multi-Family and Commercial Real Estate Loans. Loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Of primary concern in multi-family and commercial real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and the feasibility and cash flow potential of the project. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flows on income properties, we require borrowers and loan guarantors, if any, to provide annual financial statements on multi-family and commercial real estate loans. In addition, some loans may contain covenants regarding ongoing cash flow coverage requirements. In reaching a decision on whether to make a multi-family or commercial real estate loan, we consider and review a global cash flow analysis of the borrower and consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability, and the value of the underlying property. An environmental survey or environmental risk insurance is obtained when the possibility exists that hazardous materials may have existed on the site, or the site may have been impacted by adjoining properties that handled hazardous materials. Construction and Land and Land Development Loans. Construction financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk of loss than long-term financing on improved, occupied real estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. During the construction phase, a number of factors could result in delays and cost overruns. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the building. If the estimate of value proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted, at or before the maturity of the loan, with a building having a value which is insufficient to assure full repayment if liquidation is required. If we are forced to foreclose on a building before or at completion due to a default, we may be unable to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, speculative construction loans, which are loans made to home builders who, at the time of loan origination, have not yet secured an end buyer for the home under construction, typically carry higher risks than those associated with traditional construction loans. These increased risks arise because of the risk that there will be inadequate demand to ensure the sale of the property within an acceptable time. As a result, in addition to the risks associated with traditional construction loans, speculative construction loans carry the added risk that the builder will have to pay the property taxes and other carrying costs of the property until an end buyer is found. Land and land development loans have substantially similar risks to speculative construction loans. Consumer Loans. Consumer loans may entail greater risk than do residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans that are secured by assets that depreciate rapidly, such as motor vehicles and boats. In such cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and a small remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. In the case of home equity loans, real estate values may be reduced to a level that is insufficient to cover the outstanding loan balance after accounting for the first mortgage loan balance. Consumer loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and therefore are likely to be adversely affected by various factors, including job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. Commercial Business Loans. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment income or other income, and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial business loans are of higher risk and typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial business loans may depend substantially on the success of the business itself. Further, any collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. 6 Loan Originations, Sales and Purchases. Loan originations come from a number of sources. The primary sources of loan originations are existing customers, walk-in traffic, advertising and referrals from customers. We generally sell in the secondary market long-term fixed-rate residential mortgage loans that we originate. We have not historically sold participation interests in loans that we have originated; however, we acquired loans from Community First that included sold participation interests. At September 30, 2010, $7.2 million of loans included sold participation interests of $4.1 million, for a net position of $3.1 million outstanding in our portfolio. We have not historically purchased whole loans or participation interests to supplement our lending portfolio; however, we acquired participation interests of loans in the acquisition of Community First. At September 30, 2010, we had participation interests of loans totaling $5.0 million and our largest participation interest with a single borrower was $1.9 million. This loan, which was originated in November 2005 and is secured by an apartment complex, was categorized as less than 30 days delinquent at September 30, 2010. We may sell participation interests in loans originated by us or purchase participation interests in loans originated by other financial institutions from time to time depending on various factors. Our decision to sell or purchase loans is based on prevailing market interest rate conditions, interest rate management, regulatory lending restrictions and liquidity needs. Loan Approval Procedures and Authority. Our lending activities follow written, non-discriminatory underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by our Board of Directors and management. Certain of our employees have been granted individual lending limits, which vary depending on the individual, the type of loan and whether the loan is secured or unsecured. Generally, all loan requests for lending relationships that exceed the individual officer lending limits, which is generally $250,000 secured or $50,000 unsecured, require committee or Board of Directors approval. Loans resulting in aggregated lending relationships in excess of $250,000 secured and $50,000 unsecured but less than $1.0 million require approval by the Officer Loan Committee and loans resulting in aggregated lending relationships in excess of $1.0 million but less than $2.5 million require approval of the Executive Loan Committee. The Executive Loan Committee consists of the President, Area President, Chief Operations Officer, Chief of Credit Administration, Senior Lending Officer and VP of Commercial Lending and the Officer Loan Committee consists of the same but also includes certain other officers designated by the Board of Directors. Loans resulting in aggregated lending relationships in excess of $2.5 million require approval by both the Executive Loan Committee and the Board of Directors. Loans to One Borrower. The maximum amount that we may lend to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities is limited, by regulation, to generally 15% of our stated capital and reserves. At September 30, 2010, our regulatory limit on loans to one borrower was $6.4 million. At that date, our largest lending relationship was $5.7 million, of which $5.7 million was outstanding, and was performing according to its original terms at that date. This loan relationship is secured by commercial real estate and the borrower’s personal residence. Loan Commitments. We issue commitments for residential and commercial mortgage loans conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events. Commitments to originate mortgage loans are legally binding agreements to lend to our customers. Generally, our loan commitments expire after 30 days. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this annual report. Investment Activities We have legal authority to invest in various types of liquid assets, including U.S. Treasury obligations, securities of various U.S. government agencies and sponsored enterprises and of state and municipal governments, mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and certificates of deposit of federally insured institutions. Within certain regulatory limits, we also may invest a portion of our assets in other permissible securities. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, we also are required to maintain an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis stock. At September 30, 2010, our investment portfolio consisted primarily of U.S. government agency and sponsored enterprises securities, mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations issued by U.S. government agencies and sponsored enterprises, municipal securities and privately-issued collateralized mortgage obligations acquired in the acquisition of Community First. We do not currently invest in trading account securities. 7 Our investment objectives are to provide and maintain liquidity, to establish an acceptable level of interest rate and credit risk, and to provide an alternate source of low-risk investments at a favorable return when loan demand is weak. Our Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the investment portfolio, including approval of the investment policy. Messrs. Myers, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Schoen, our Chief Financial Officer, are responsible for implementation of the investment policy and monitoring our investment performance. Our board of directors reviews the status of our investment portfolio on a quarterly basis, or more frequently if warranted. Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds General. Deposits, borrowings and loan and investment security repayments are the major sources of our funds for lending and other investment purposes. Scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows, loan prepayments and investment security calls are significantly influenced by general interest rates and money market conditions. Deposit Accounts. Deposits are attracted from within our primary market area through the offering of a broad selection of deposit instruments, including non-interest-bearing demand deposits (such as checking accounts), interest-bearing demand accounts (such as NOW and money market accounts), regular savings accounts and certificates of deposit. Deposit account terms vary according to the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In determining the terms of our deposit accounts, we consider the rates offered by our competition, our liquidity needs, profitability to us, matching deposit and loan products and customer preferences and concerns. We generally review our deposit mix and pricing weekly. Our deposit pricing strategy has typically been to offer competitive rates on all types of deposit products, and to periodically offer special rates in order to attract deposits of a specific type or term. Borrowings. We use advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis to supplement our investable funds. The Federal Home Loan Bank functions as a central reserve bank providing credit for member financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of such stock and certain of our mortgage loans and other assets (principally securities which are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States), provided certain standards related to creditworthiness have been met. Advances are made under several different programs, each having its own interest rate and range of maturities. Depending on the program, limitations on the amount of advances are based either on a fixed percentage of an institution’s net worth or on the Federal Home Loan Bank’s assessment of the institution’s creditworthiness. We have a federal funds purchased line of credit facility with another financial institution that is subject to continued borrower eligibility and is intended to support short-term liquidity needs. We also utilize retail and broker repurchase agreements as sources of borrowings and may use brokered certificates of deposits from time to time depending on our liquidity needs and pricing of these facilities versus other funding alternatives. Personnel As of September 30, 2010, we had 130 full-time employees and 28 part-time employees, none of whom is represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. Subsidiaries The Company’s sole subsidiary is the Bank. The Bank has three subsidiaries, Southern Indiana Financial Corporation and FFCC, Inc., both of which are organized as Indiana corporations, and First Savings Investments, Inc., a Nevada corporation. Southern Indiana Financial Corporation is an independent insurance agency, offering various types of annuities and life insurance policies. FFCC, Inc. was organized for the purposes of purchasing, holding and disposing of real estate owned. First Savings Investments, Inc. was organized on October 3, 2008 for the purpose of holding and managing a portion of the Bank’s investment securities portfolio. 8 REGULATION AND SUPERVISION First Savings Financial Group, as a savings and loan holding company, is required to file certain reports with, is subject to examination by, and otherwise must comply with the rules and regulations of the Office of Thrift Supervision. First Savings Financial Group is also subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the federal securities laws. First Savings Financial Group is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and it is subject to the rules of Nasdaq for listed companies. First Savings Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision, as its primary federal regulator, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as its deposits insurer. First Savings Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. First Savings Bank must file reports with the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals before entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other financial institutions. There are periodic examinations by the Office of Thrift Supervision and, under certain circumstances, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to evaluate First Savings Bank’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulatory structure is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such policies, whether by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on First Savings Financial Group and First Savings Bank and their operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), signed by the President on July 21, 2010, provides for the regulation and supervision of federal savings associations like First Savings Bank to be transferred to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the agency that regulates national banks. The Office of The Comptroller of the Currency will assume primary responsibility for implementing and enforcing many of the laws and regulations applicable to federal savings associations. The transfer will occur over a transition period of up to one year, subject to a possible six month extension. At the same time, the responsibility for supervising savings and loan holding companies like First Savings Financial Group will be transferred to the Federal Reserve Board, which is the agency that regulates bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the creation of a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve Board, to take over the implementation of federal consumer financial protection and fair lending laws from the depository institution regulators. However, institutions of $10 billion or fewer in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with such laws and regulations by, and subject to the enforcement authority of, the prudential regulator rather than the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Certain of the regulatory requirements that are applicable to First Savings Bank and First Savings Financial Group are described below. This description of statutes and regulations is not intended to be a complete explanation of such statutes and regulations and their effects on First Savings Bank and First Savings Financial Group and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual statutes and regulations. Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Business Activities. Federal law and regulations, primarily the Home Owners’ Loan Act and the regulations of the Office of Thrift Supervision, govern the activities of federal savings banks, such as First Savings Bank. These laws and regulations delineate the nature and extent of the activities in which federal savings banks may engage. In particular, certain lending authority for federal savings banks, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property loans and consumer loans, is limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital or assets. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes depository institutions to pay interest on demand deposits effective July 31, 2011. Depending upon competitive responses, that change could have an adverse impact on First Savings Bank’s interest expense. 9 Branching. Federal savings banks are authorized to establish branch offices in any state or states of the United States and its territories, subject to the approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Capital Requirements. The Office of Thrift Supervision’s capital regulations require federal savings institutions to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital to total assets ratio, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS examination rating system) and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action standards discussed below establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS system) and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital standard. The Office of Thrift Supervision regulations also require that, in meeting the tangible, leverage and risk-based capital standards, institutions must generally deduct investments in and loans to subsidiaries engaged in activities as principal that are not permissible for national banks. The risk-based capital standard requires federal savings institutions to maintain Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the Office of Thrift Supervision capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Core (Tier 1) capital is defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary capital currently include cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock, the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and up to 45% of unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. The Office of Thrift Supervision also has authority to establish individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is or may become inadequate in light of the particular circumstances. At September 30, 2010, First Savings Bank met each of these capital requirements. See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this annual report. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. The Office of Thrift Supervision is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution’s degree of undercapitalization. Generally, a savings institution that has a ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets of less than 8%, a ratio of Tier 1 (core) capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 4% or a ratio of core capital to total assets of less than 4% (3% or less for institutions with the highest examination rating) is considered to be “undercapitalized.” A savings institution that has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio that is less than 3% is considered to be “significantly undercapitalized” and a savings institution that has a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be “critically undercapitalized.” Subject to a narrow exception, the Office of Thrift Supervision is required to appoint a receiver or conservator within specified time frames for an institution that is “critically undercapitalized.” An institution must file a capital restoration plan with the Office of Thrift Supervision within 45 days of the date it receives notice that it is “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Compliance with the plan must be guaranteed by any parent holding company in the amount of the lesser of 5% of the association’s total assets when it became undercapitalized or the amount necessary to achieve full compliance at the time the association first failed to comply. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. “Significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to more extensive mandatory regulatory actions. The Office of Thrift Supervision could also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. 10 Loans to One Borrower. Federal law provides that savings institutions are generally subject to the limits on loans to one borrower applicable to national banks. Subject to certain exceptions, a savings institution may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily-marketable collateral. See “Item 1. Business — Loan Underwriting Risks — Loans to One Borrower.” Standards for Safety and Soundness. As required by statute, the federal banking agencies have adopted Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the Office of Thrift Supervision determines that a savings institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the Office of Thrift Supervision may require the institution to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. Limitation on Capital Distributions. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, including cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to stockholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under the regulations, an application to and the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision is required before any capital distribution if the institution does not meet the criteria for “expedited treatment” of applications under Office of Thrift Supervision regulations (i.e., generally, examination and Community Reinvestment Act ratings in the two top categories), the total capital distributions for the calendar year exceed net income for that year plus the amount of retained net income for the preceding two years, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision. If an application is not required, the institution must still provide prior notice to the Office of Thrift Supervision of the capital distribution if, like First Savings Bank, it is a subsidiary of a holding company. If First Savings Bank’s capital were ever to fall below its regulatory requirements or the Office of Thrift Supervision notified it that it was in need of increased supervision, its ability to make capital distributions could be restricted. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision could prohibit a proposed capital distribution that would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the agency determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Qualified Thrift Lender Test. Federal law requires savings institutions to meet a qualified thrift lender test. Under the test, a savings association is required to either qualify as a “domestic building and loan association” under the Internal Revenue Code or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities) in at least 9 months out of each 12-month period. A savings institution that fails the qualified thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act also makes noncompliance with the qualified thrift lender test subject to agency enforcement action for violation of law. As of September 30, 2010, First Savings Bank maintained 83.4% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments and, therefore, met the qualified thrift lender test. Transactions with Related Parties. First Savings Bank’s authority to engage in transactions with “affiliates” is limited by Office of Thrift Supervision regulations and Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation W. The term “affiliates” for these purposes generally means any company that controls or is under common control with an institution. First Savings Financial Group and any non-savings institution subsidiaries would be affiliates of First Savings Bank. In general, transactions with affiliates must be on terms that are as favorable to the institution as comparable transactions with non-affiliates. In addition, certain types of transactions are restricted to 10% of an institution’s capital and surplus with any one affiliate and 20% of capital and surplus with all affiliates. Collateral in specified amounts must usually be provided by affiliates in order to receive loans from an institution. In addition, savings institutions are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and no savings institution may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. 11 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 generally prohibits a company from making loans to its executive officers and directors. However, that act contains a specific exception for loans by a depository institution to its executive officers and directors in compliance with federal banking laws. Under such laws, First Savings Bank’s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and 10% stockholders (“insiders”), as well as entities such persons control, is limited. The law restricts both the individual and aggregate amount of loans First Savings Bank may make to insiders based, in part, on First Savings Bank’s capital position and requires certain board approval procedures to be followed. Such loans must be made on terms substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals and not involve more than the normal risk of repayment. There is an exception for loans made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that is widely available to all employees of the institution and does not give preference to insiders over other employees. There are additional restrictions applicable to loans to executive officers. For information about transactions with our directors and officers, see “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Enforcement. The Office of Thrift Supervision has primary enforcement responsibility over federal savings institutions and has the authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated parties, including stockholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership or conservatorship. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1 million per day in especially egregious cases. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to recommend to the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the Director, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will assume the enforcement authority of the Office of Thrift Supervision as part of the Dodd-Frank Act regulatory restructuring. Assessments. Federal savings banks are required to pay assessments to the Office of Thrift Supervision to fund its operations. The general assessments, paid on a semi-annual basis, are based upon the savings institution’s total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries, as reported in the institution’s latest quarterly thrift financial report, the institution’s financial condition and the complexity of its asset portfolio. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. First Savings Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments. An institution’s assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned, and certain potential adjustments established by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regulations. Effective April 1, 2009, assessment rates range from seven to 77.5 basis points of assessable deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to amend its procedures to base assessments on total assets less tangible equity rather than deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has issued a proposed rule which, if finalized, would implement that directive in the second quarter of 2011. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation may adjust the scale uniformly from one quarter to the next, except that no adjustment can deviate more than three basis points from the base scale without notice and comment. No institution may pay a dividend if in default of the federal deposit insurance assessment. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed on all insured institutions a special emergency assessment of five basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 capital (as of June 30, 2009), capped at ten basis points of an institution’s deposit assessment base, in order to cover losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. That special assessment, in the amount of $217,000, was collected on September 30, 2009. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation provided for similar assessments during the final two quarters of 2009, if deemed necessary. However, in lieu of further special assessments, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 through the fourth quarter of 2012. Such amount was $2.1 million for First Savings Bank. The estimated assessments, which include an assumed annual assessment base increase of 5%, were recorded as a prepaid expense asset as of December 31, 2009. Beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2010, and each quarter thereafter, a charge to earnings will be recorded for each regular assessment with an offsetting credit to the prepaid asset until the prepaid asset balance is expended. 12 Due to the recent difficult economic conditions, deposit insurance per account owner has been raised to $250,000. That limit was made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted an optional Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program by which, for a fee, noninterest bearing transaction accounts would receive unlimited insurance coverage until September 30, 2010, subsequently extended to December 31, 2010, with an additional possible extension up to December 31, 2011, and certain senior unsecured debt issued by institutions and their holding companies between October 13, 2008 and October 31, 2009 would be guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation through June 30, 2012, or in some cases, December 31, 2012. First Savings Bank did not opt to participate in the unlimited noninterest bearing transaction account coverage or the unsecured debt guarantee program. The Dodd-Frank Act adopted mandatory unlimited coverage for certain noninterest bearing transaction accounts from January 1, 2011 until December 31, 2012. In addition to the assessment for deposit insurance, institutions are required to make payments on bonds issued in the late 1980s by the Financing Corporation to recapitalize a predecessor deposit insurance fund. That payment is established quarterly and during the four quarters ended September 30, 2010 averaged 1.04 basis points of assessable deposits. These financing corporation payments will continue until the bonds mature in 2017 through 2019. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum target Deposit Insurance Fund ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020. Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more are supposed to fund the increase. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the 1.5% maximum fund ratio, instead leaving it to the discretion of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of First Savings Bank. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or regulatory condition imposed in writing. The management of First Savings Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. Federal Home Loan Bank System. First Savings Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of twelve (12) regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. First Savings Bank, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that Federal Home Loan Bank. At September 30, 2010, First Savings Bank complied with this requirement with an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock of $4.2 million. The Federal Home Loan Banks are required to provide funds for the resolution of insolvent thrifts in the late 1980s and to contribute funds for affordable housing programs. These requirements, and general economic conditions, could reduce the amount of dividends that the Federal Home Loan Banks pay to their members and could also result in the Federal Home Loan Banks imposing a higher rate of interest on advances to their members. If dividends were reduced, or interest on future Federal Home Loan Bank advances increased, our net interest income would likely also be reduced. Community Reinvestment Act. Under the Community Reinvestment Act, as implemented by Office of Thrift Supervision regulations, a savings association has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The Community Reinvestment Act does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act requires the Office of Thrift Supervision, in connection with its examination of a savings association, to assess the institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by such institution. 13 The Community Reinvestment Act requires public disclosure of an institution’s rating and requires the Office of Thrift Supervision to provide a written evaluation of an association’s Community Reinvestment Act performance utilizing a four-tiered descriptive rating system. First Savings Bank received a “satisfactory” rating as a result of its most recent Community Reinvestment Act assessment. Other Regulations Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by First Savings Bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. First Savings Bank’s operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as the: · Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; · Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; · Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; · Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; · Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and · Rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such federal laws. The operations of First Savings Bank also are subject to the: · Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; · Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E promulgated thereunder, which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services; · Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (also known as “Check 21”), which gives “substitute checks,” such as digital check images and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check; · Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (referred to as the “USA PATRIOT Act”), which significantly expands the responsibilities of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, in preventing the use of the U.S. financial system to fund terrorist activities. Among other provisions, it requires financial institutions operating in the United States to develop new anti-money laundering compliance programs, due diligence policies and controls to ensure the detection and reporting of money laundering. Such required compliance programs are intended to supplement existing compliance requirements, also applicable to financial institutions, under the Bank Secrecy Act and the Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulations; and 14 · The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act places limitations on the sharing of consumer financial information with unaffiliated third parties. Specifically, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires all financial institutions offering financial products or services to retail customers to provide such customers with the financial institution’s privacy policy and provide such customers the opportunity to “opt out” of the sharing of personal financial information with unaffiliated third parties. Federal Reserve System The Federal Reserve Board regulations require savings institutions to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (“NOW”) and regular checking accounts). For 2010, the regulations generally provided that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $55.2 million; a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $55.2 million. The first $10.7 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to adjustments by the Federal Reserve Board) are exempted from the reserve requirements. The amounts are adjusted annually and for 2011, require a 3% ratio for up to $58.8 million and an exception of $10.7 million. First Savings Bank complies with the foregoing requirements. Holding Company Regulation General. First Savings Financial Group is a nondiversified unitary savings and loan holding company within the meaning of federal law. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 provides that no company may acquire control of a savings institution after May 4, 1999 unless it engages only in the financial activities permitted for financial holding companies under the law and for multiple savings and loan holding companies as described below. Further, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act specifies that existing savings and loan holding companies may only engage in such activities. Upon any non-supervisory acquisition by First Savings Financial Group of another savings institution or savings bank that meets the qualified thrift lender test and is deemed to be a savings institution by the Office of Thrift Supervision, First Savings Financial Group would become a multiple savings and loan holding company (if the acquired institution is held as a separate subsidiary) and would generally be limited to activities permissible for bank holding companies under Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, subject to the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision, and certain activities authorized by Office of Thrift Supervision regulation. However, the Office of Thrift Supervision has issued an interpretation concluding that multiple savings and loan holding companies may also engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies. A savings and loan holding company is prohibited from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings institution or savings and loan holding company, without prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision, and from acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings institutions, the Office of Thrift Supervision considers, among other things, the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the deposit insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. The Office of Thrift Supervision may not approve any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings institutions in more than one state, subject to two exceptions: (i) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies; and (ii) the acquisition of a savings institution in another state if the laws of the state target savings institution specifically permit such acquisitions. The states vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company acquisitions. 15 Savings and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific regulatory capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act, however, requires the Federal regulators to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to institutions themselves. That will mean that trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock will not be includable in Tier 1 capital unless issued prior to May 19, 2010. There is a five year transition period before the capital requirements will apply to savings and loan holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also extends the “source of strength” doctrine to savings and loan holding companies. The regulatory agencies must issue regulations requiring that all bank and savings and loan holding companies serve as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions. First Savings Bank must notify the Office of Thrift Supervision 30 days before declaring any dividend to First Savings Financial Group. In addition, the financial impact of a holding company on its subsidiary institution is a matter that is evaluated by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the agency has authority to order cessation of activities or divestiture of subsidiaries deemed to pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the institution. Acquisition of Control. Under the federal Change in Bank Control Act, a notice must be submitted to the Office of Thrift Supervision if any person (including a company), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire “control” of a savings and loan holding company. An acquisition of “control” can occur upon the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting stock of a savings and loan holding company or as otherwise defined by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Acquisition of 25% or more of voting stock is definitively deemed a change in control. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition. Any company that so acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. Regulatory Restructuring Legislation On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, which is legislation that restructures the regulation of depository institutions. In addition to eliminating the Office of Thrift Supervision and creating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, requires changes in the way that institutions are assessed for deposit insurance, mandates the imposition of consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies, requires that originators of securitized loans retain a percentage of the risk for the transferred loans, reduces the federal preemption afforded to federal savings associations and contains a number of reforms related to mortgage origination. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require the issuance of regulations before their impact on operations can be assessed by management. However, there is a significant possibility that the Dodd-Frank Act will, at a minimum, result in increased regulatory burden and increased compliance and possibly interest expense costs for First Savings Financial Group and First Savings Bank. Federal Securities Laws First Savings Financial Group’s common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. First Savings Financial Group is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Federal Income Taxation General. We report our income on a fiscal year basis using the accrual method of accounting. The federal income tax laws apply to us in the same manner as to other corporations with some exceptions, including particularly our reserve for bad debts discussed below. The following discussion of tax matters is intended only as a summary and does not purport to be a comprehensive description of the tax rules applicable to us. For its 2010 fiscal year, First Savings Bank’s maximum federal income tax rate was 34%. 16 First Savings Financial Group and First Savings Bank have entered into a tax allocation agreement. Because First Savings Financial Group owns 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of First Savings Bank, First Savings Financial Group and First Savings Bank are members of an affiliated group within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, of which group First Savings Financial Group is the common parent corporation. As a result of this affiliation, First Savings Bank may be included in the filing of a consolidated federal income tax return with First Savings Financial Group and, if a decision to file a consolidated tax return is made, the parties agree to compensate each other for their individual share of the consolidated tax liability and/or any tax benefits provided by them in the filing of the consolidated federal income tax return. Our Federal income tax returns have not been audited during the last five years. Bad Debt Reserves. For fiscal years beginning before June 30, 1996, thrift institutions that qualified under certain definitional tests and other conditions of the Internal Revenue Code were permitted to use certain favorable provisions to calculate their deductions from taxable income for annual additions to their bad debt reserve. A reserve could be established for bad debts on qualifying real property loans, generally secured by interests in real property improved or to be improved, under the percentage of taxable income method or the experience method. The reserve for nonqualifying loans was computed using the experience method. Federal legislation enacted in 1996 repealed the reserve method of accounting for bad debts and the percentage of taxable income method for tax years beginning after 1995 and required savings institutions to recapture or take into income certain portions of their accumulated bad debt reserves. Further recapture of the Bank’s tax bad debt reserves is triggered if the Bank makes a “non-dividend distribution” to First Savings Financial Group, as described below, or meets the definition of a “large bank” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Internal Revenue Code, if a bank’s average adjusted assets exceeds $500 million for any tax year it is considered a “large bank” and must utilize the specific charge-off method to compute bad debt deductions. Approximately $4.6 million of our accumulated bad debt reserves would be recaptured into taxable income over one or more years if First Savings Bank makes a “non-dividend distribution” to First Savings Financial Group or meets the definition of a “large bank” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Distributions. If First Savings Bank makes “non-dividend distributions” to First Savings Financial Group, the distributions will be considered to have been made from First Savings Bank’s unrecaptured tax bad debt reserves, including the balance of its reserves as of December 31, 1987, to the extent of the “non-dividend distributions,” and then from First Savings Bank’s supplemental reserve for losses on loans, to the extent of those reserves, and an amount based on the amount distributed, but not more than the amount of those reserves, will be included in First Savings Bank’s taxable income. Non-dividend distributions include distributions in excess of First Savings Bank’s current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for federal income tax purposes, distributions in redemption of stock, and distributions in partial or complete liquidation. Dividends paid out of First Savings Bank’s current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be so included in First Savings Bank’s taxable income. The amount of additional taxable income triggered by a non-dividend distribution is an amount that, when reduced by the tax attributable to the income, is equal to the amount of the distribution. Therefore, if First Savings Bank makes a non-dividend distribution to First Savings Financial Group, approximately one and one-half times the amount of the distribution not in excess of the amount of the reserves would be includable in income for federal income tax purposes, assuming a 34% federal corporate income tax rate. First Savings Bank does not intend to pay dividends that would result in a recapture of any portion of its bad debt reserves. State Taxation Indiana. Indiana imposes an 8.5% franchise tax based on a financial institution’s adjusted gross income as defined by statute. In computing adjusted gross income, deductions for municipal interest, U.S. Government interest, the bad debt deduction computed using the reserve method and pre-1990 net operating losses are disallowed. Our state income tax returns have not been audited during the last five years. 17 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our concentration in non-owner occupied residential real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At September 30, 2010, $43.3 million, or 25.2% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio and 12.4% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At September 30, 2010, we had 15 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, each having an outstanding balance over $500,000, with aggregate outstanding balances of $16.1 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. At September 30, 2010, non-performing non-owner occupied residential loans amounted to $766,000. Non-owner occupied residential properties held as real estate owned amounted to $249,000 at September 30, 2010. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” Our recent emphasis on commercial real estate lending and commercial business lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At September 30, 2010, $84.8 million, or 24.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans. Subject to market conditions, we intend to increase our origination of these loans. Commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial real estate loans also typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers both at origination and at maturity because many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully-amortizing, but result in “balloon” balances at maturity. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At September 30, 2010, non-performing commercial business loans and non-performing commercial real estate loans totaled $344,000 and $1.2 million, respectively. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” Our unseasoned commercial real estate loan and commercial business loan portfolios may expose us to increased lending risks. A significant amount of our commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. Furthermore, these loans have not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could adversely affect our future performance. 18 Our construction loan and land and land development loan portfolios may expose us to increased credit risk. At September 30, 2010, $34.8 million, or 10.0% of our loan portfolio consisted of construction loans, and land and land development loans, and $5.7 million, or 22.3% of the construction loan portfolio, consisted of speculative construction loans at that date. While recently the demand for construction loans has decreased significantly due to the decline in the housing market, historically, construction loans, including speculative construction loans, have been a material part of our loan portfolio. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. Subject to market conditions, we intend to continue to emphasize the origination of construction loans and land and land development loans. These loan types generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operation or sale of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Furthermore, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses through future charges to income as the portfolio of these types of loans grows, which would hurt our earnings. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” If the other-than-temporary-impairment is recorded in connection with our investment portfolio it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of U.S. government agency and sponsored enterprises securities, mortgage backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations issued by U.S. government agencies and sponsored enterprises, municipal bonds and privately-issued collateralized mortgage obligations. We must evaluate these securities for other-than-temporary impairment loss (“OTTI”) on a periodic basis. During 2010 we recognized an other-than-temporary write-down charge to earnings of $60,000 representing the total amortized cost of a privately-issued asset-backed security. While we have no remaining privately-issued asset-backed securities, the privately-issued collateralized mortgage obligations exhibit signs of weakness, which may necessitate an OTTI charge in the future should the financial condition of the pools deteriorate further. Also, given the current economic environment and possible further deterioration in economic conditions, we may need to record an OTTI charge for our other investments should the issuers of those securities experience financial difficulties. Any future OTTI charges could significantly impact our earnings. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is currently operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, both nationally and in the local markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in financial and real estate values. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales, and an increase in the financial stress on borrowers stemming from an uncertain economic environment, including rising unemployment, could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely impact the repayment of its loan portfolio. The overall deterioration in economic conditions also could subject the Company to increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, a further deterioration in local economic conditions, could result in increases in loan delinquencies and problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the value of the collateral securing loans in the Bank’s portfolio. Also, a further deterioration in local economic conditions could drive the level of loan losses beyond the level the Company has provided for loan loss allowance, which could necessitate an increase in the Company’s provision for loan losses, which would reduce earnings. Additionally, the demand for the Company’s products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact the Company’s liquidity and revenues. 19 Changing interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Also, interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely hurt our income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Risk Management — Interest Rate Risk Management.” We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Community First acquisition. The success of the Community First acquisition depends primarily on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of Community First by, among other things, realizing anticipated cost savings, retaining Community First’s loan and deposit customers and its key personnel, and successfully managing any growth resulting from the acquisition. If we are unable to integrate Community First’s operations successfully, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which may have a material adverse effect of our financial conditions and results of operations. If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on our profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets we acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At September 30, 2010, our goodwill totaled $5.9 million. While we have recorded no such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision will be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $217,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.1 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within our primary market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2010, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held approximately 12.19%, 1.24%, 17.22%, 74.45% and 7.50% of the FDIC-insured deposits in Clark, Floyd, Harrison, Crawford and Washington Counties, Indiana, respectively. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area. See “Item 1. Business — Market Area” and “Item 1. Business — Competition” for more information about our primary market area and the competition we face. 21 We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. First Savings Financial Group is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of First Savings Bank rather than for holders of First Savings Financial Group common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. If our regulators require us to charge-off loans or increase our allowance for loan losses, our earnings would suffer. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. For a further discussion, see “Item 1. Business – Regulation and Supervision.” Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Item 