Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our concentration in non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At September 30, 2009, $45.2 million, or 24.3% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio and 12.6% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At September 30, 2009, we had 12 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, each having an outstanding balance over $500,000, with aggregate outstanding balances of $15.4 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. At September 30, 2009, non-performing non-owner occupied residential loans amounted to $803,000. Non-owner occupied residential properties held as real estate owned amounted to $306,000 at September 30, 2009. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” Our recent emphasis on commercial real estate lending and commercial business lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At September 30, 2009, $85.0 million, or 23.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans. Subject to market conditions, we intend to increase our origination of these loans. Commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial real estate loans also typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers both at origination and at maturity because many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully-amortizing, but result in “balloon” balances at maturity. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At September 30, 2009, non-performing commercial business loans and non-performing commercial real estate loans totaled $572,000 and $1.1 million, respectively. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” Our unseasoned commercial real estate loan and commercial business loan portfolios may expose us to increased lending risks. A significant amount of our commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated recently. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectibility. Furthermore, these loans have not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could adversely affect our future performance. 17 Our construction loan and land and land development loan portfolios may expose us to increased credit risk. At September 30, 2009, $33.4 million, or 9.27% of our loan portfolio consisted of construction loans, farmland and land and land development loans, and $8.2 million, or 36.9% of the construction loan portfolio, consisted of speculative construction loans at that date. While recently the demand for construction loans has decreased significantly due to the decline in the housing market, historically, construction loans, including speculative construction loans, have been a material part of our loan portfolio. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of loan origination. Subject to market conditions, we intend to continue to emphasize the origination of construction loans and land and land development loans. These loan types generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans because the repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operation or sale of the property and the income stream of the borrowers and such loans typically involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Furthermore, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses through future charges to income as the portfolio of these types of loans grows, which would hurt our earnings. For more information about the credit risk we face, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management.” Changing interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. In addition, over the last year, the U.S. Federal Reserve has decreased its target rate for federal funds from 1.00% to 0.25%. Interest rate decreases can lead to increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such repayment proceeds into lower yielding investments, which would likely hurt our income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Risk Management — Interest Rate Risk Management.” We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Community First acquisition. The success of the Community First acquisition depends primarily on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of Community First by, among other things, realizing anticipated cost savings, retaining Community First’s loan and deposit customers and its key personnel, and successfully managing any growth resulting from the acquisition. If we are unable to integrate Community First’s operations successfully, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which may have a material adverse effect of our financial conditions and results of operations. 18 A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Substantially all of our loans are secured by real estate in Clark, Floyd, Harrison, Crawford and Washington Counties, Indiana, and the surrounding areas. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could significantly increase nonperforming loans, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could lead to some of our mortgage loans becoming inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could hurt our portfolio of construction loans, nonresidential real estate loans, and land and land development loans and could reduce our ability to originate such loans. For a discussion of our primary market area, see “Item 1. Business — Market Area.” Strong competition within our primary market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2009, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held approximately 13.20%, 1.34%, 14.73%, 71.15% and 7.37% of the FDIC-insured deposits in Clark, Floyd, Harrison, Crawford and Washington Counties, Indiana, respectively. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area. See “Item 1. Business — Market Area” and “Item 1. Business — Competition” for more information about our primary market area and the competition we face. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. First Savings Financial Group is also subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of First Savings Bank rather than for holders of First Savings Financial Group common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. If our regulators require us to charge-off loans or increase our allowance for loan losses, our earnings would suffer. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. For a further discussion, see “Item 1. Business – Regulation and Supervision.” The current administration has also proposed comprehensive legislation intended to modernize regulation of the United States financial system. The proposed legislation contains several provisions that would have a direct impact on First Savings Financial Group and First Savings Bank. Under the proposed legislation, the federal savings association charter would be eliminated and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be consolidated with the Comptroller of the Currency into a new regulator, the National Bank Supervisor. The proposed legislation would also require First Savings Bank to convert to a national bank or a state-chartered institution. In addition, the proposed legislation would eliminate the status of “savings and loan holding company” and mandate that First Savings Financial Group register as a bank holding company. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change because there are material differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, bank holding companies above a specified asset size are subject to consolidated leverage and risk-based capital requirements whereas savings and loan holding companies are not subject to such requirements. The proposed legislation would also create the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, a new federal agency dedicated to administering and enforcing fair lending and consumer compliance laws with respect to financial products and services, which would create new regulatory requirements and increased regulatory compliance costs for us. If enacted, the proposed legislation may have a material impact on our operations. However, because any final legislation may differ significantly from the current administration’s proposal, the specific effects of the legislation cannot be evaluated at this time. 19 Expenses from operating as a public company and from new equity benefit plans will continue to adversely affect our profitability. Our noninterest expenses are impacted as a result of the financial, accounting, legal and various other additional expenses usually associated with operating as a public company. We also recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses stemming from the shares that are purchased or granted to employees and executives under the employee stock ownership plan and other new benefit plans. These additional expenses adversely affect our profitability. We recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts and will recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. Our contribution to First Savings Charitable Foundation may not be tax deductible, which could hurt our profits. We believe that our contribution to First Savings Charitable Foundation, valued at $1.2 million, pre-tax, will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. However, we do not have any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will grant tax-exempt status to the foundation. If the contribution is not deductible, we would not receive any tax benefit from the contribution. In addition, even if the contribution is tax deductible, we may not have sufficient profits to be able to use the deduction fully. In the event it is more likely than not that we will be unable to use the entire deduction, we will be required to establish a valuation allowance related to any deferred tax asset that has been recorded for this contribution. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Item 