ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. For the reasons below and elsewhere in this document, investing in our units involves a high degree of risk. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be harmed, which could cause the value of our shares to decline and investors to lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Operations and Market Shortages of feedstock or increases in the cost of feedstock will reduce our profitability. To produce biodiesel we must purchase significant amounts of feedstock. In the past, for our Mississauga plant, we have purchased this feedstock on the spot market and have not entered into fixed price or formula priced contracts with sources of supply. There is risk that adequate supplies of feedstock may not be available to us at affordable costs, particularly for the larger quantities that will be required at our Sombra plant. Increased demand for virgin vegetable oil, used vegetable oil or rendered animal fat either for feedstock or for other uses may increase spot market prices and reduce our ability to enter into supply contracts at prices which will allow us to remain competitive. The drought in the Midwestern United States has increased the cost of corn and soybeans and may increase the cost of certain biodiesel feedstocks in the future, including vegetable oil and animal fat. The impact of the drought on the prices of our feedstocks is uncertain, but the drought may increase the prices of some or all of our feedstocks as the market adjusts to higher corn and soybean prices. The availability and price of this feedstock will significantly affect our gross margins. A significant reduction in the quantity of available feedstock or an increase in the prices of feedstock could result in increased costs and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We have installed a larger version of our Denami processor at our Sombra plant, the performance of which has been assessed during only a few days of full-scale operation. We have installed a larger version of our Denami processor, the Denami 3000, at the Sombra plant. Although the Denami 3000 is based on the same technology as the Denami 600, the Denami 3000 is much larger and operates at a faster flow rate. The larger Denami 3000 has been favorably tested during full scale operation for only a few days and we could still experience unexpected problems during sustained operations that might make it difficult to produce quality biodiesel. Potential problems with the Denami 3000 could increase costs and delay the start of full-scale production, and could adversely affect our ability to sell our Denami processors, and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our operating costs at our Sombra plant could be higher than we expect. In addition to general market fluctuations and economic conditions, we could experience significant operating cost increases as a result of the failure of our Sombra plant to operate as efficiently as we expect. Other factors, many of which are beyond our control, which may also increase our costs include: ● Higher feedstock prices because of an inadequate supply of or greater demand by others for feedstock; ● Higher labor costs; ● Higher costs for electricity and natural gas due to market conditions; and ● Higher transportation costs because of greater demands on truck and rail transportation services. Our management team has little or no experience in the operation of a biodiesel facility the size of our Sombra plant, which increases the risk that we will be unable to manage and operate it successfully. We are highly dependent on our management team to operate our Sombra plant. Our management team has substantial business experience and four years’ experience operating our Mississauga plant, but has little or no experience in building and operating a biodiesel production plant of the size of our new Sombra facility. Although the construction of that facility is now complete, it may not have been properly designed or constructed. Although we expect to hire additional personnel and enter into agreements with contractors and consultants to assist us in our operations at Sombra, there is no assurance that we will be able to hire employees or enter into agreements satisfactory to us. If our management team is unable or finds it difficult to manage our Sombra operations successfully, our results of operations and our ability to succeed as a business will be adversely affected. Compliance with existing or new environmental laws and rules could significantly increase our costs, or cause us to suspend or halt operations at our Sombra plant. To operate our plants, we will need to comply with ongoing and new environmental and permitting requirements. Although we have received all permits required to operate our Mississauga and Sombra plants, the stormwater permit for Sombra is not yet finalized and must be confirmed by issuance of a final permit. Even final permits may be subject to changes in requirements and compliance reviews. Failure to receive a final stormwater permit or failure to maintain other necessary permits could subject us to demands by regulators that increase our costs of operations. Environmental issues, such as contamination and compliance with applicable environmental standards, could arise at any time. If this occurs, it could require us to spend significant resources to remedy the issues and may suspend or prevent operation of our plants. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with all permitting and environmental requirements to operate our plants efficiently on a continuing basis. 17 Table of Contents Defects in the construction or performance of the Sombra plant could result in a reduction in our revenues and profitability. Although we have engaged experienced third-party companies to construct the Sombra plant, we have not received any warranties with respect to materials and workmanship or assurances that the project will operate at design capacity. Defects in the construction or performance of the plant could occur, and there is no assurance that we, our sub-contractors or anyone else that we contracted with to construct the project could correct these problems. If defects hinder the operations of the plant, our revenues, profitability and the value of your shares could be materially adversely affected. If defects require a lengthy or permanent discontinuance of production, your shares could have little or no value. We have a history of losses which should be considered by investors in assessing the liklihood of our operating profitably in the future. We have never earned a profit. For the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2012, we reported net losses of approximately $811,000 and $3.97 million, respectively. As of November 30, 2012, our accumulated deficit was approximately $10.2 million. Investors should consider this history of losses in assessing the likelihood of our operating profitably in the future. As more biodiesel plants are built, biodiesel production will increase and, if demand does not sufficiently increase, this could result in lower prices for biodiesel, which will decrease the amount of revenue we may generate. We expect that the number of biodiesel producers and the amount of biodiesel produced will likely continue to increase. In particular, we believe there is a significant effort in the United States and in Canada to develop and construct biodiesel plants and produce biodiesel products that would compete with us in the marketplace. We cannot assure you that the demand for biodiesel will continue to increase proportionally or at all. The demand for biodiesel is dependent on numerous factors, including governmental regulations, mandates, and incentives, as well as the development of other technologies or products that may compete with biodiesel. If the demand for biodiesel does not increase sufficiently, then increased biodiesel production may lead to lower biodiesel prices. Decreases in the price of biodiesel will result in decreases in our revenues. We face intense competition within the biodiesel marketplace. We operate in the intensely competitive alternative fuels business, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively. Other companies presently in the market, or that could enter the market, could adversely affect prices for the biodiesel and glycerin we sell. There are numerous other entities considering or constructing biodiesel plants, some of which are near or in our potential trade territory and supply region. In Canada and the United States, the biodiesel industry is expected to become more competitive given the substantial initial construction of biodiesel facilities currently taking place. In addition, several regional biodiesel producers have been recently formed or are under consideration, which are or would be of a similar or greater size and have similar or greater resources than us. In light of such competition, there is no assurance that we will be able to complete or successfully operate our plants. We have no long-term sale contracts and we may not be successful in profitably selling our biodiesel. We have no long-term or fixed price agreements for the sale of our biodiesel and must compete with other producers of biodiesel. This competition could impair our ability to sell our biodiesel at profitable price points. Competition in the biodiesel industry is strong and growing more intense as more biodiesel production facilities are built and the industry expands. We are in direct competition with larger biodiesel producers, many of which have greater resources than we do. We compete with other facilities in Canada and the United States for customers in our regional market. We expect that additional biodiesel producers will enter the market if the regulatory environment remains favorable and the demand for biodiesel continues to increase. 18 Table of Contents Our business is only diversified within the biodiesel industry and is primarily dependent on the sale of biodiesel products and services. As a consequence, we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or endure any decline in the biodiesel industry. Our success depends on the overall success of the biodiesel industry and on our ability to efficiently produce biodiesel and to provide the biodiesel industry with competitive equipment and services to produce biodiesel. With the exception of selling the glycerin that is produced as a byproduct of our biodiesel production, our revenues, including license fees from use of our software to run Denami processors, are all generated in the biodiesel industry. If we cannot efficiently produce biodiesel, if our Denami processors are not competitive with other biodiesel processors or if the demand for biodiesel declines, our business would be seriously harmed. Our plants do not have the ability to produce any other products. Our lack of diversification means that we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or any significant decline in the biodiesel industry. The market price of biodiesel is influenced by the price of petroleum-based distillate fuels, such as ultra-low sulfur diesel, and decreases in the price of petroleum-based distillate fuels or RIN values would very likely decrease the price we can charge for our biodiesel, which could harm our revenues and profitability. Historically, biodiesel prices have been strongly correlated to petroleum-based diesel prices and in particular ultra-low sulfur diesel, or ULSD, regardless of the cost of producing biodiesel itself. We market our biofuel as an alternative to petroleum-based fuels. Therefore, if the price of petroleum-based diesel falls, the price of biodiesel could decline, and we may be unable to produce products that are a commercially viable alternative to petroleum-based fuels. Petroleum prices are volatile due to global factors such wars, political uprisings, and other events, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, production quotas, worldwide economic conditions, changes in refining capacity and natural disasters. Additionally, demand for liquid transportation fuels, including biodiesel, is affected by economic conditions. A reduction in petroleum-based fuel prices may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits if such price decreases reduce the price we are able to charge for our biodiesel. Increasing required volume obligations for biodiesel under Renewable Fuel Standard 2, or RFS2, has made the price of biodiesel more sensitive to changes in feedstock costs. Increased RIN values have, in part, offset the higher cost of biodiesel when compared to petroleum-based fuels. A reduction in RIN values may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profits if such reduction reduces the price we are able to charge for our biodiesel. Technological advances and changes in production methods in the biodiesel industry could render our plants obsolete and adversely affect our ability to compete. We expect that technological advances in the processes and methods for processing biodiesel will continue to occur. It is possible that those advances could make the processes at the Sombra plant less efficient or obsolete, or cause the biodiesel we produce to be of a lesser quality. These advances could also allow our competitors to produce biodiesel below our cost. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our biodiesel production methods and processes could be less efficient than our competitors, which could cause our plants to become uncompetitive and our results of operations to be substantially harmed. The development of alternative fuels and energy sources may reduce the demand for biodiesel, resulting in a reduction in our revenues and profitability. The development of alternative fuels, including a variety of energy alternatives to biodiesel, has attracted significant attention and investment. The construction of several renewable diesel plants by competitors has been announced. Under RFS2, renewable diesel made from biomass meets the definition of biomass-based diesel and thus is eligible, along with biodiesel, to satisfy the RFS2 biomass-based diesel requirement described in “Business–Government Incentives.” Renewable diesel is biodiesel that has been hydro-cracked and refined so that it becomes molecularly indistinguishable from petroleum based distillates. Furthermore, under RFS2, renewable diesel may receive up to 1.7 RINs per gallon, whereas biodiesel currently receives 1.5 RINs. As the value of RINs increase, this 0.2 RIN advantage may make renewable diesel more cost-effective, both as a petroleum-based diesel substitute and for meeting RFS2 requirements. If renewable diesel proves to be more cost-effective than biodiesel, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. The biodiesel industry will also face increased competition resulting from the advancement of technology by automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers which are developing more efficient engines, hybrid engines and alternative clean power systems. Improved engines and alternative clean power systems offer a technological solution to address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. If and when these clean power systems are able to offer significant efficiency and environmental benefits and become widely available, the biodiesel industry may not be able to compete effectively with these technologies and government requirements for the use of biodiesel may not continue. 19 Table of Contents The development of alternative fuels and renewable chemicals also puts pressure on feedstock supply and availability to the biodiesel industry. If these emerging technologies compete with biodiesel for feedstock, are more profitable or have greater governmental support than biodiesel does, then the biodiesel industry may have difficulty in procuring the feedstock necessary to be successful. We depend upon the continued services of certain members of our senior management team, without whom our business operations would be significantly disrupted. Our success depends, in part, on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management team has industry experience, at least in operating a small-scale biodiesel plant, and would be difficult to replace. We believe that the expertise and knowledge of these individuals in our industry, and in their respective fields, is a critical factor to our continued growth and success. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects if we are unable to identify a suitable candidate to replace any such individual. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified marketing, sales, technical and other personnel. Our insurance and manufacturer warranties may be inadequate to cover all the liabilities we may incur. We face the risk of exposure to product liability claims and adverse public relations in the event that our processors cause damage to the facilities in which they are installed, harm persons at those facilities or cause environmental problems. If a product liability claim is successful, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we may incur, including harm to our reputation, and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we do not have adequate insurance or warranty protection, product liability claims relating to defective products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our business is subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which are likely to cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate. Our operating results are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of biodiesel. Our sales tend to decrease during the winter season due to perceptions that biodiesel will not perform adequately in colder weather. Colder seasonal temperatures can cause the higher cloud point biodiesel we make from inedible animal fats to become cloudy and eventually gel. The cloud point of a fluid is the temperature at which dissolved solids are no longer completely soluble giving the fluid a cloudy appearance. In general, biodiesel made from inedible animal fats will become cloudy at a higher temperature than petroleum-based diesel or lower cloud point biodiesel made from soybean, canola or inedible corn oil. Such gelling can lead to plugged fuel filters and other fuel handling and performance problems for customers and suppliers. Reduced demand in the winter for our higher cloud point biodiesel may result in excess supply of such higher cloud point biodiesel or lower prices for such higher cloud point biodiesel. In addition, our production facilities are located in Canada and our costs of shipping biodiesel to warmer climates generally increase in cold weather months. Additionally, in the last quarter of fiscal 2011, demand for biodiesel was particularly strong as blenders sought to take advantage of the blender’s tax credit before it expired on December 31, 2011. Strong purchases by blenders in that quarter reduced demand in the subsequent quarter. As a result of seasonal fluctuations and the higher than usual demand in the last quarter of fiscal 2011, comparisons of operating measures between consecutive quarters may not be as meaningful as comparisons between longer reporting periods. We are an “emerging growth company” under the U.S. JOBS Act of 2012 and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company”, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”), and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may decrease or may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We are choosing to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. As a result of our election to be treated as an emerging growth company, our financial statements may not be comparable to those of companies that comply with public company effective dates for the adoption of new accounting standards. 20 Table of Contents We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if our revenues exceed $1 billion, if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, or if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30. Our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act of 2012 may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company” and because we will have an extended transition period for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards, we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Regulation and Governmental Action Loss or reductions of governmental requirements in Canada and the United States for the use of biofuels could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating margins. The biodiesel industry relies substantially on Canadian national and provincial requirements, U.S. federal requirements and state policies for use of biofuels. Since biodiesel has been more expensive to produce than petroleum-based diesel fuel over the past few years, the biodiesel industry depends on governmental programs that support a market for biodiesel that might not otherwise exist. The most important of these government programs in the United States is RFS2, which requires that a certain volume of biomass-based diesel fuel, which includes biodiesel, be consumed. RFS2 became effective on July 1, 2010 and applies through 2022. We believe that the increase in demand for biodiesel and higher biodiesel prices in 2011 is directly attributable to the implementation of RFS2. There can be no assurance that the U.S. Congress or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, will not repeal, curtail, grant a waiver under or otherwise change the RFS2 program in a manner adverse to us. The petroleum industry has opposed the retroactive application of certain provisions of the rule and fundamental fairness in the implementation of policy involved in RFS2 and can be expected to continue to press for changes that eliminate or reduce its impact. Any repeal, waiver or reduction in the RFS2 requirements or reinterpretation of RFS2 resulting in our biodiesel failing to qualify as a required fuel would materially decrease the demand for and price of our product, which would materially and adversely harm our revenues and cash flows. If Congress decides to repeal or curtail RFS2, or if the EPA is not able or willing to enforce RFS2 requirements, the demand for our product based on this program and any increases in demand that we expect due to RFS2 would be significantly reduced or eliminated and our revenues and operating margins would be materially harmed. In addition, although we believe that state requirements for the use of biofuels increase demand for our biodiesel within such states, they generally may not increase overall demand in excess of RFS2 requirements. Rather, existing demand for our biofuel from petroleum refiners and petroleum fuel importers in the 48 contiguous states or Hawaii, which are defined as “obligated parties” in the RFS2 regulations, in connection with federal requirements, may shift to states that have use requirements or tax incentive programs. Our business is subject to extensive and potentially costly environmental regulation in Canada that could change and significantly increase our operating costs. We are subject to environmental regulations of the Canadian Minister of Environment or the MOE, related to release of methane into the atmosphere and stormwater run-off. These regulations could result in significant compliance costs and may change in the future. Also, the MOE may seek to implement additional regulations or implement stricter interpretations of existing regulations. Changes in environmental laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing regulations may require significant additional capital expenditures or increase our operating costs. 21 Table of Contents In addition, our plants, and particularly our new Sombra plant which was recently placed in service, could be subject to environmental nuisance or related claims by employees, property owners, environmental groups or residents near the plant arising from air, water or other discharges, particularly the discharge of methane which is used in our production process. These individuals and entities may object to these discharges or emissions into the environment from the plant. Environmental and public nuisance claims, tort claims based on emissions, or increased environmental compliance costs could significantly increase our operating costs, affect our profitability and reduce the value of your shares. Failure to comply with governmental regulations, including EPA requirements relating to RFS2, could result in the imposition of penalties, fines, or restrictions on our operations and remedial liabilities. The biodiesel industry is subject to extensive U.S. federal, state, Canadian, provincial and local laws and regulations related to the general population’s health and safety and compliance and permitting obligations, including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, pollutants or hazardous substances, or discharges and other emissions, as well as land use and development. Though both our plants are located in Canada, we may be subject to certain of these laws to the extent our biodiesel is exported to the United States. In addition to the regulations mentioned above, we are subject to various laws and regulations related to RFS2, most significantly regulations related to the generation and dissemination of RINs. These regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. Any violation of these regulations by us, inadvertently or otherwise, could result in significant fines and harm our customers’ confidence in the RINs we issue, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Public company expenses may reduce our net income or increase our loss. We have operated as a public company only since October 12, 2012. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Capital Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. New expenses as a result of our being a public company include additional amounts for legal and accounting services, listing fees for Nasdaq, transfer agent fees, additional insurance costs, printing and filing fees, fees for investor and public relations and compensation payable to non-employee directors. In addition, we expect the application of these rules and regulations to our company will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which could harm our business or negatively affect the value of our stock. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In connection with our 2012 audit, we began to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting in order to allow our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will evaluate the need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Nasdaq Capital Market, or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, if we are unable to meet filing deadlines for reports required by the Securities Exchange Act, our securities could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our securities were delisted from Nasdaq, trading, if any, in our securities would be conducted in the over the counter market. Consequently, the liquidity and price of our securities could be impaired. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 