Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, including multi-family residential, commercial and construction and land lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and commercial business loans. We have increased our emphasis on originating commercial real estate loans, including multi-family residential, and commercial business loans in recent years, and such loans have increased as a proportion of our loan portfolio from 32.6% in the aggregate at December 31, 2005 to an aggregate of 41.6% at December 31, 2009. Commercial real estate lending, multi-family residential lending and commercial business lending generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved in these loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At December 31, 2009, the largest outstanding balances of commercial real estate loan and commercial business loan were $5.6 million and $3.1 million, respectively. While we have had relatively nominal charge-offs of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans in recent years, if one of these large loans were to become non-performing, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, our relatively recent emphasis on increasing our originations of commercial real estate and commercial business loans means that our portfolio of these loans is significantly weighted with loans which are not well seasoned and are generally perceived to be more susceptible to adverse economic conditions than older loans. In addition to commercial real estate and commercial business loans, Home Bank holds a significant portfolio of construction and land loans. At December 31, 2009, Home Bank’s construction and land loans amounted to $35.4 million, or 10.5% of our loan portfolio. Construction and land loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. While we are not aware of any specific, material impediments impacting any of our builder/developer borrowers at this time, there continues to be nationwide reports of significant problems which have adversely affected many property developers and builders as well as the institutions that have provided them with loans. If any of the builder/developers to which we have extended construction and land loans experience the type of difficulties that are being reported, it could have adverse consequences upon our future results of operations. Our allowance for loans losses may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. While we are not aware of any specific factors indicating a deficiency in the amount of our allowance for loan losses, in light of the current economic slowdown, the increased number of foreclosures and lower real estate values, one of the most pressing current issues faced by financial institutions is the adequacy of their allowance for loan losses. Federal bank regulators have increased their scrutiny of the level of the allowance for losses maintained by regulated institutions. Many banks and other lenders are reporting significantly higher provisions to their allowance for loan losses, which are materially impacting their earnings. In the event that we have to increase our allowance for loan losses beyond current levels, it would have an adverse effect on our results in future periods. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $3.4 million, while our total loan portfolio was $336.6 million at such date. 12 Table of Contents Other than temporary declines in the value of our investment securities may require us to take additional charges to earnings. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment throughout the year. Each investment that has a fair value less than book value is reviewed quarterly. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management’s review concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded charges of $1.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively, for the other-than-temporary impairment of certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2009, our investment securities portfolio included 24 non-agency mortgage-backed securities with an aggregate amortized cost of $39.7 million, an aggregate fair value of $37.9 million and gross unrealized losses of $2.1 million at such date. The unrealized losses on such securities primarily relate to increasing levels of delinquencies and defaults in the mortgage loans underlying such securities. 11 of the 24 securities in this portfolio had been in a continuous loss position for over 12 months at December 31, 2009. Additional delinquencies and defaults in the mortgage loans underlying these securities may adversely affect the cash flows received by us and may result in a conclusion in future periods that the securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. Such a conclusion of other-than-temporary impairment would require us to take additional charges to earnings to write down the value of these securities. We may not succeed in our plan to grow which could reduce future profitability. We intend to grow our branch system by opening additional offices. We opened two new full-service banking offices in 2008 and an additional full-service banking office in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in March 2010. Typically, it takes several years for a new banking office to become profitable, and this could adversely affect our earnings in future periods. There also is a risk that, as we geographically expand our lending area, we may not be as successful in assessing the credit risks which are inherent in different markets. In addition, we may seek to either acquire other financial institutions and/or branch offices. Our ability to successfully acquire other institutions depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate such institutions into our franchise. Our experience in mergers is limited to one acquisition in 2006 of a one branch building and loan association located in Crowley, Louisiana, approximately 20 miles west of Lafayette. If we were to acquire another institution in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected if our analysis of the acquisition of such institution was not complete and correct or our integration efforts were not successful. Currently, we have no agreements or understandings with anyone regarding an acquisition. Our business is geographically concentrated in south central Louisiana, which makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Most of our loans are to individuals and businesses located generally in south central Louisiana. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. While economic conditions in south central Louisiana have been stronger than many areas of the U.S. in recent periods, the concentration of our business operations in south central Louisiana makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Declines in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for the loans we make. Historically, the oil and gas industry has constituted a significant component of the local economy in south central Louisiana. The oil and gas industry remains an important factor in the local economy in the markets that Home Bank operates in and downturns in the local oil and gas industry could adversely affect Home Bank. The current economic environment poses significant challenges and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although the economy in south central Louisiana continues to be relatively strong, particularly in comparison to many other areas of the country and the United States as a whole, there has been some recent softening of certain economic indicators in our markets. In addition, recessionary conditions in the broader economy could adversely 13 Table of Contents affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in the Company’s market areas. In particular, adverse developments in the national or international markets in the oil and gas industries could have an adverse impact on economic conditions in the Company’s market areas. The impact of current economic conditions on the Company’s financial results could also include increased levels of nonperforming loans, provisions for loan losses, and expense associated with loan collection efforts. Additions to the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net earnings and capital and could hinder the Company’s ability to grow. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, John W. Bordelon. Mr. Bordelon has served as President of the Bank for 16 years. The loss of Mr. Bordelon could have an adverse effect on us, as he is central to many aspects of our business operations and management. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. If general market rates of interest increase, our interest expense on deposits and borrowings would likely increase which would adversely affect our interest rate spread and net interest income. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the Bank’s net portfolio value. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We are subject to extensive federal governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and our operations in the future. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We are significantly smaller than the larger depository institutions operating in our market areas. The financial resources of these larger competitors may permit them to pay higher interest rates on their deposits and to be more aggressive in new loan originations. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Some of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, more advanced technological capabilities, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Vigorous competition from both bank and non-bank organizations is expected to continue. 14 Table of Contents Any future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums or special assessments will adversely impact our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $200,000 during the year ended December 31, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted regulations that require insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The new regulations base the assessment rate for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 and for 2010 on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 on the modified third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under the prepaid assessment rule, we made a payment of $1.2 million to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on December 30, 2009, and recorded the payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The Obama Administration has published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system and has offered proposed legislation to accomplish these reforms. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. Under the proposed legislation, the federal thrift charter and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution, such as the Company and the Mutual Holding Company, will be required to register as bank holding companies. An existing federal thrift, such as Malvern Federal Savings, would become a national bank or could choose to adopt a state charter. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The Administration has also proposed the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President, we cannot determine the specific impact of any regulatory reform at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 