Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, including multi-family residential, other commercial and construction and land lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and other commercial loans. We have increased our emphasis on originating commercial real estate loans, including multi-family residential, and other commercial loans in recent years. Commercial real estate lending, multi-family residential lending and other commercial lending generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved in these loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2010, the largest outstanding balances of our commercial real estate loans and other commercial loans were $7.6 million and $2.6 million, respectively. While we have had relatively nominal charge-offs of commercial real estate loans and other commercial loans in recent years, if one of these large loans were to become non-performing, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, our relatively recent emphasis on increasing our originations of commercial real estate and other commercial loans means that our portfolio of these loans is significantly weighted with loans which are not well seasoned and are generally perceived to be more susceptible to adverse economic conditions than older loans. In addition to commercial real estate and other commercial loans, Home Bank holds a significant portfolio of construction and land loans. As of December 31, 2010, Home Bank’s construction and land loans amounted to $57.5 million, or 13.1% of our loan portfolio. Construction and land loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. While we are not aware of any specific, material impediments impacting any of our builder/developer borrowers at this time, there continues to be nationwide reports of significant problems which have adversely 11 Table of Contents affected many property developers and builders as well as the institutions that have provided them with loans. If any of the builder/developers to which we have extended construction and land loans experience the type of difficulties that are being reported, it could have adverse consequences upon our future results of operations. Our allowance for loans losses may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. While we are not aware of any specific factors indicating a deficiency in the amount of our allowance for loan losses, in light of the current economic slowdown, the increased number of foreclosures and lower real estate values, one of the most pressing current issues faced by financial institutions is the adequacy of their allowance for loan losses. Federal bank regulators have increased their scrutiny of the level of the allowance for losses maintained by regulated institutions. Many banks and other lenders are reporting significantly higher provisions to their allowance for loan losses, which are materially impacting their earnings. In the event that we have to increase our allowance for loan losses beyond current levels, it would have an adverse effect on our results in future periods. As of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $3.9 million, which was allocated to our loans not covered under the FDIC loss sharing agreements (“Noncovered Loans”) totaling $359.5 million as of such date. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate and our estimated loss sharing receivable in our FDIC-assisted acquisition may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio acquired from Statewide, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In our FDIC-assisted acquisition of Statewide, which included loss sharing agreements, we recorded a loss sharing receivable that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. In determining the size of the loss sharing receivable, we analyzed the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, economic conditions and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are incorrect, our current receivable may be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and increased loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements for loans (“Covered Loans”) and repossessed assets (collectively “Covered Assets”) acquired in our FDIC-assisted acquisition depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreements. Management must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on Covered Assets. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, management may decide to forgo loss sharing coverage on certain assets to allow greater flexibility over the management of certain assets. As of December 31, 2010, $86.0 million, or 12.3%, of the Company’s assets were covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. Under the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements, the assignment or transfer of the loss sharing agreements to another entity generally requires the written consent of the FDIC. In addition, the Bank may not assign or otherwise transfer the loss sharing agreements during their terms without the prior written consent of the FDIC in all of the following circumstances: 1. a merger or consolidation of the Bank with and into another financial institution; 2. a sale of all or substantially all of the Bank’s assets to another financial institution; and 12 Table of Contents 3. for a period of 36 months after the March 12, 2010 Statewide acquisition date, a. the sale by any individual shareholder, or shareholders acting in concert, of more than 9% of the outstanding shares of either the Bank or the Company; b. the sale of shares by the Bank or the Company in a public or private offering that increases the number of shares outstanding of either the Bank or the Company by more than 9%. No assurances can be given that we will manage the Covered Assets in such a way as to always maintain loss sharing coverage on all such assets. Other than temporary declines in the value of our investment securities may require us to take additional charges to earnings. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment throughout the year. Each investment with a fair value less than book value is reviewed quarterly. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management’s review concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded charges of $1.2 million, $1.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively, for the other-than-temporary impairment of certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2010, our investment securities portfolio included 20 non-agency mortgage-backed securities with an aggregate amortized cost of $21.3 million, an aggregate fair value of $20.5 million and gross unrealized losses of $854,000 as of such date. The unrealized losses on such securities primarily relate to increasing levels of delinquencies and defaults in the mortgage loans underlying such securities. Eight of the 20 securities in this portfolio had been in a continuous loss position for over 12 months as of December 31, 2010. Additional delinquencies and defaults in the mortgage loans underlying these securities may adversely affect the cash flows received by us and may result in a conclusion in future periods that the securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. Such a conclusion of other-than-temporary impairment would require us to take additional charges to earnings to write down the value of these securities. We may not succeed in our plan to grow which could reduce future profitability. We have grown our branch system by opening additional offices. In Baton Rouge, Louisiana, we opened two new full-service banking offices in 2008 and an additional full-service banking office in March 2010. Typically, it takes several years for a new banking office to become profitable, and this could adversely affect our earnings in future periods. There also is a risk that, as we geographically expand our lending area, we may not be as successful in assessing the credit risks which are inherent in different markets. In addition, we have acquired and may continue to seek to either acquire other financial institutions and/or branch offices. Our ability to successfully acquire other institutions depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate such institutions into our franchise. Our experience in mergers and acquisitions consists of an acquisition in 2006 of a one branch building and loan association located in Crowley, Louisiana, and an FDIC-assisted acquisition in 2010 of a bank with six branches located in the Northshore region of Louisiana. If we were to acquire another institution in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected if our analysis of the acquisition of such institution was not complete and correct or our integration efforts were not successful. Currently, we have no agreements or understandings with anyone regarding an acquisition. Our business is geographically concentrated in south Louisiana, which makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Most of our loans are to individuals and businesses located in south Louisiana. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. While economic conditions in south Louisiana have been stronger than many areas of the U.S. in recent periods, the concentration of our business operations in south Louisiana makes us vulnerable to downturns in the economies in which we operate. Declines in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for the loans we make. Historically, the oil and gas industry has constituted a significant component of the economy in south Louisiana. The oil and gas industry remains an important factor in the local economy in the markets that Home Bank operates in and downturns in the local oil and gas industry could adversely affect Home Bank. 13 Table of Contents A natural disaster, especially one affecting our market area, could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Since most of our business is conducted in south Louisiana, most of our credit exposure is in that area. Historically, Louisiana has been vulnerable to natural disasters. Therefore, we are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and tornados. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our websites, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. A natural disaster or recurring power outages may also impair the value of our loan portfolio, as uninsured or underinsured losses, including losses from business disruption, may reduce borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. Disasters may also reduce the value of the real estate securing our loans, impairing our ability to recover on defaulted loans through foreclosure and making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections (and maintain business interruption insurance), these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters in our market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The current economic environment poses significant challenges and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although the economy in south Louisiana continues to be stronger in comparison to many other areas of the country and the United States as a whole, there has been some recent softening of certain economic indicators in our markets. In addition, recessionary conditions in the broader economy could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in the Company’s market areas. In particular, adverse developments in the national or international markets in the oil and gas industries could have an adverse impact on economic conditions in the Company’s market areas. The impact of current economic conditions on the Company’s financial results could also include increased levels of nonperforming loans, provisions for loan losses and expense associated with loan collection efforts. Additions to the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net earnings and capital and could hinder the Company’s ability to grow. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. If general market rates of interest increase, our interest expense on deposits and borrowings would likely increase which would adversely affect our interest rate spread and net interest income. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We are significantly smaller than the larger depository institutions operating in our market areas. The financial resources of these larger competitors may permit them to pay higher interest 14 Table of Contents rates on their deposits and to be more aggressive in new loan originations. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Some of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, more advanced technological capabilities, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Vigorous competition from both bank and non-bank organizations is expected to continue. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009, was $200,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, our primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that, among other things, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies, including the Bank and the Company. Under the new law, the Company’s and the Bank’s primary regulator, the OTS, will be eliminated and existing federal thrifts will be subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC, which currently supervises and regulates all national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, which will have the authority to promulgate new regulations governing the Company that will impose additional capital requirements and may result in additional restrictions on investments and other holding company activities. The law also creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this independent bureau could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered financial institutions will be reduced. In addition, regulation mandated by the new law could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices and compensation practices which may have a material impact on our operations. Because the regulations under the new law have not been promulgated, we cannot determine the full impact on our business and operations at this time. See “Regulation – Recently Enacted Regulatory Reform.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 