ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below which represent the major risks to our business, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the notes thereto and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” before making an investment decision. The statements contained in this section constitute cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects may be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business Our operating results could be adversely affected by a reduction in business with our significant customers. We derive a significant amount of revenues from a few customers. For instance, various divisions or business units of one of our customers were responsible for approximately 18%, 17% and 17% of our revenues for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Taken as a group, our top 10 customers were responsible for approximately 45%, 36% and 35% of our revenues for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Generally, our customers do not have an obligation to make purchases from us and may stop ordering our products and services or may terminate existing orders or contracts at any time with little or no financial penalty. The loss of any of our significant customers, any substantial decline in sales to these customers or any significant change in the timing or volume of purchases by our customers could result in lower revenues and could ha rm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 An accident or incident involving our asset protection solutions could expose us to claims, harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to compete for business and, as a result, harm our operating performance. We could be exposed to liabilities arising out of the solutions we provide. For instance, we furnish the results of our testing and inspections for use by our customers in their assessment of their assets, facilities, plants and other structures. If such results were to be incorrect or incomplete, whether as a result of poorly designed inspections, malfunctioning testing equipment or our employees’ failure to adequately test or properly record data, we could be subject to subject to claims. For example, one of our clients claimed one of our x-ray inspection crews had improperly recorded inspection data about a portion of its infrastructure, requiring us to provide a new team to inspect that infrastructure over a period of three months at our expense. Further, if an accident or incident involving a structure we are testing or have tested occurs and causes personal injuries to our personnel or third parties, or property damage, such as the collapse of a bridge or an explosion in a plant or facility, and particularly if these injuries or damages could have been prevented by our customers had we provided them with correct or complete results, we may face significant claims by injured persons or related parties and claims relating to any property damage or loss. Even if our results are correct and complete, we may face claims for such injuries or damage simply because we tested the structure or facility in question. For instance, we recently inspected a subset of welds made in a liquid storage tank farm under construction for a customer in order to determine if the welds were being made in accordance with applicable regulations. The welds we tested were specified by the contractor that made them. Weeks after our inspections were completed a weld in a tank cracked, resulting in the spill of hazardous material. The customer made a claim on its insurer, which in turn made claims against us, among others, for the clean-up costs, which in this case are not significant. Though we believe we did not test the weld that failed, if we are unable to prove this fact we may decide to or be compelled by a court to pay some of the clean-up costs. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the damages from any such claims, forcing us to bear these uninsured damages directly, which could harm our operating results and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenues. An accident or incident for which we are found partially or fully responsible, even if fully insured, may also result in negative publicity, which would harm our reputation among our customers and the public, cause us to lose existing and future contracts or make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, thereby significantly harming our operating performance. Such an accident or incident might also make it more expensive or impossible for us to insure against sim ilar events in the future. Even unsuccessful claims relating to accidents could result in substantial costs, including litigation expenses, and diversion of our management resources. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of trained engineers, scientists and other highly-skilled technicians at competitive wages, our operational performance may be harmed and our costs may increase. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of trained engineers, scientists and other highly-skilled, certified technicians at competitive wages. The demand for such employees is currently high, and we project that it may increase substantially in the future. Accordingly, we have experienced increases in our labor costs, particularly in our Services segment, but also, to a lesser extent, in our International segment. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have comparatively greater name recognition and resources. In addition, in making employment decisions, job candidates often consider the value of the equity compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the future market price of our stock may, t herefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Furthermore, the requirement to expense stock-based awards may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock-based awards that job candidates require to join our company. The markets for our products and services also require us to field personnel trained and certified in accordance with standards set by domestic or international standard-setting bodies, such as the American Society of Non-Destructive Testing. Because of the limited supply of these certified technicians, we expend substantial resources maintaining in-house training and certification programs. If we fail to attract sufficient new personnel or fail to motivate and retain our current personnel, our ability to perform under existing contracts and orders or to pursue new business may be harmed, causing us to lose customers and revenues, and the costs of performing such contracts and orders may increase, which would likely reduce our margins. If we lose members of our senior management team upon whom we are dependent, we may not be able to manage our operations and achieve our strategic objectives. Our future success depends to a considerable degree upon the availability, contributions, vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management team. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees other than Dr. Sotirios J. Vahaviolos, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We currently have no employment agreements with members of our senior management team other than with Dr. Vahaviolos. Although we may enter into employment agreements with certain executive officers in the future, these agreements will likely not guarantee the services of the individual for a specified period of time. All of the future agreements with members of our senior management team are expected to provide that their employment is at-will and may be terminated by either us or the employee at any time and wi thout notice. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any of these persons in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives. The loss or interruption of the service of members of our senior management team could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and could significantly reduce our ability to manage our operations and implement our strategy. 25 We operate in highly competitive markets and if we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenues and our margins could decline. We face strong competition from NDT and a variety of niche asset protection providers, both larger and smaller than we are. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do and could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competing business model or develop products or services that are more attractive to potential customers than what we offer. Some of our competitors are business units of companies substantially larger than us and have the ability to combine asset protection solutions into an integrated offering to customers who already purchase other types of products or services from them. Our competitors may offer asset protection solutions at prices below or without cost in order to improve their competitive positions. Smaller niche competitors with small customer bases may be very aggressive i n their pricing in order to retain customers. These competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, can cause us to lower our prices and accept lower margins in order to compete, the impact of which can reduce our market share, revenues and profits. Due to our dependency on customers in the oil and gas industry, we are susceptible to prolonged negative trends relating to this industry that could adversely affect our operating results. Our customers in the oil and gas industry (including the petrochemical market) have accounted for a substantial portion of our historical revenues. Specifically, they accounted for approximately 63%, 58% and 50% of our revenues for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. While we make efforts to expand our customer base into industries other than the oil and gas industry, we may not be successful in doing so. Our services are vital to the operators of plants and refineries, however economic slow downs in the oil and gas industry can result in cut backs in contracts for our services. If the oil and gas industry were to suffer a prolonged or significant downturn, our revenues, profits and cash flows may be reduced. While we continue to seek to expand our market presence in the power generation and transmission, and chemical processing industries, among others, these markets too are cyclical in nature and as such, are subject to economic downturns. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or integrate acquired businesses successfully, which may inhibit our rate of growth, and any acquisitions that we do complete may expose us to a number of unanticipated operational and financial r isks. Our historical growth has depended, and our future growth is likely to continue to depend, to a certain extent, on our ability to make acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities, both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets globally. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our current operations or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those achieved by our current operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Some of the risks associated with our acquisition strategy include: ● unexpected loss of key personnel and customers of the acquired company; ● making the acquired company’s financial and accounting standards consistent with our standards; ● assumption of liability for risks and exposures (including environmental-related costs), some of which we may not discover during our due diligence; and ● potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management. Our ability to undertake acquisitions is limited by covenants in our credit agreement and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses, impairment expenses related to goodwill and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Although management intends to: (i) evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, (ii) assume only risks it believes to be acceptable, and (iii) develop plans to mitigate such risks, there are no assurances that we will properly ascertain or accurately assess the extent of all such risks. Difficulties encountered w ith acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Catastrophic events, such as natural disasters, industrial accidents, epidemics, war and acts of terrorism, could disrupt our business or the business of our customers, which could significantly harm our operations, financial results and cash flow. Our operations and those of our customers are susceptible to the occurrence of catastrophic events outside our control, ranging from severe weather conditions to acts of war and terrorism. Any such events could cause a serious business disruption that reduces our customers’ ability to or interest in purchasing our asset protection solutions, and have in the past resulted in order cancellations and delays because customer equipment, facilities or operations have been damaged, or are not operational or available. In April 2010, our largest customer suffered a catastrophic industrial accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Due to the scope of the accident, the possibility exists that this customer could exit some of its refining operations or suffer liquidity problems, either of which could adversely affect our business. A large portion of our customer base has operations in the Gulf of Mexico, which is subject to hurricanes in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year. Hurricane-related disruptions to our customers operations have adversely affected our revenues in the past. Such events in the future may result in substantial delays in the provision of solutions to our customers and the loss of valuable equipment. Any cancellations, delays or losses due to a catastrophic event may significantly reduce our revenues and harm our operating performance. We face risks related to the current economic conditions. The global economy continues to be fragile. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, modest economic growth, persistently high unemployment rates, volatility in interest and currency exchange rates and continued uncertainty about economic stability. There may be further deterioration and volatility in the global economy, the global financial markets and consumer confidence. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current global economic uncertainties or disruptions in the financial markets. The downturn has already resulted in certain of our customers canceling and delaying orders for our solutions, as well as some customers delaying payment for items billed, which reduced our gross margins and operating income in fiscal 2010. Although less frequent, we continue to experience pricing pressure on new contracts and renewals of existing contracts. We have also experienced a decline in our customers’ capital spending. In addition, current economic conditions have resulted in the reduced creditworthiness, inability to obtain sufficient financing, and bankruptcies of certain customers, increasing our potential exposure to bad debt. Further, with the recent uncertainty in the European financial markets, European governments have begun to consider significant austerity measures, which could lead to cancellations or delays of orders and thus, may reduce revenues and profitability. If economic conditions deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations as planned, in light of current market conditions, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, may harm our financial performance. The inability to obtain adequate financing from debt or capital sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo certain opportunities, which in turn could potentially harm our performance. We expect to continue expanding and our success depends on how effectively we manage our growth. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. To effectively manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational, financial and reporting systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. We expect that all of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. Failure to manage our growth effectively could lead us to over or under-invest in technology and operations, result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, systems or controls, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, the loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. Our expected growth could require significant capital expend itures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new solutions. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenues could decline or may grow more slowly than expected and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. The success of our businesses depends, in part, on our ability to develop new asset protection solutions and increase the functionality of our current offerings. The market for asset protection solutions is impacted by technological change, uncertain product lifecycles, shifts in customer demands and evolving industry standards and regulations. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new asset protection solutions that comply with present or emerging industry regulations and technology standards. Also, new regulations or technology standards could increase our cost of doing business. From time to time, our customers have requested greater functionality in our solutions. As part of our strategy to enhance our asset protection solutions and grow our business, we continue to make substantial investments in the research and development of new technologies. We believe our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to design new, competitive asset protection solutions, enhance our current solutions and provide new, value-added services. Developing new solutions will require continued investment, and we may experience unforeseen technological or operational challenges. In addition, our asset protection software is complex and can be expensive to develop, and new software and software enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If we are unable to develop new asset protection solutio ns or enhancements that meet our customers’ needs on a timely basis, we will likely lose opportunities to earn revenues and to gain customers or access to markets, and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 27 If our software produces inaccurate information or is incompatible with the systems used by our customers and makes us unable to successfully provide our solutions, it could lead to a loss of revenues and customers. Our software is complex and, accordingly, may contain undetected errors or failures. Software defects or inaccurate data may cause incorrect recording, reporting or display of information related to our asset protection solutions. Any such failures, defects and inaccurate data may prevent us from successfully providing our asset protection solutions, which would result in lost revenues. Software defects or inaccurate data may lead to customer dissatisfaction and our customers may seek to hold us liable for any damages incurred. As a result, we could lose customers, our reputation may be harmed and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We currently serve a commercial, industrial and governmental customer base that uses a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software solutions and operating systems. Our asset protection solutions need to interface with these non-standard systems in order to gather and assess data. Our business depends on the following factors, among others: ● our ability to integrate our technology with new and existing hardware and software systems; ● our ability to anticipate and support new standards, especially Internet-based standards; and ● our ability to integrate additional software modules under development with our existing technology and operational processes. If we are unable to adequately address any of these factors, our results of operations and prospects for growth and profitability would be harmed. If we fail to successfully educate current and potential customers regarding the benefits of our asset protection solutions or the market for these solutions otherwise fails to develop, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. Our future success depends on continued and growing commercial acceptance of our asset protection solutions and our ability to obtain additional contracts. We anticipate that revenues related to our asset protection solutions will constitute a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to educate our potential customers about the advantages our solutions have over competing products and services, or our current customers stop purchasing our asset protection solutions, our operating results could be significantly harmed. In addition, because the asset protection solutions industry is rapidly evolving, we could lose insight into trends that may be emerging, which would further harm our competitive position by making it difficult to predict and respond to customer needs. If the market for our asset pr otection solutions does not continue to develop, our ability to grow our business would be limited and we might not be able to maintain profitability. The seasonal nature of our business reduces our revenues and profitability in our first and third fiscal quarters. Our business is seasonal. Our first and third fiscal quarter revenues are typically lower than our revenues in the second and fourth fiscal quarters because demand for our asset protection solutions from the oil and gas as well as the fossil and nuclear power industries increases during their non-peak production periods. For instance, U.S. refineries’ non-peak periods are generally in our second fiscal quarter, when they are retooling to produce more heating oil for winter, and in our fourth fiscal quarter, when they are retooling to produce more gasoline for summer. As a result of these trends, we generally have reduced cash flows in our second and fourth fiscal quarters, which may require us to borrow under our credit agreement or otherwise, to discontinue planned operations, or to curtail our operations. In addition, most of o ur operating expenses, such as employee compensation and property rental expense, are relatively fixed over the short term. Moreover, our spending levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, if revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter without a substantial disruption to our business. We expect that the negative impact of seasonality on our first and third fiscal quarter revenues and profitability and second and fourth fiscal quarter cash flows will continue. 28 Growth in revenues from our Services segment or traditional NDT services relative to revenues from our Products and Systems and International segments, may reduce our overall gross profit margin. Our gross profit margin on revenues from our Services segment has historically been lower than our gross profit margin on revenues from our other segments because our services have higher labor-related costs. For instance, the gross profit margin in our Services segment for fiscal 2010 was approximately 27%, while our gross profit margin in our Products and Systems segment and in our International segment was approximately 53% and 38%, respectively. Our overall gross profit margin was 31% during the same period. We expect to continue our efforts to increase the number of “evergreen” or “run and maintain” contracts at oil refineries. Often times, the services we provide at the beginning of these contracts are traditional NDT services. Until such time as we can understand the needs of each new “evergreenR 21; plant and we can then make recommendations to provide our advanced NDT services, and thus improve our sales product mix, our margins may continue to decline. Our gross profit margin on traditional NDT services has historically been lower than our gross profit margin in our Services segment as a whole. As a result, we expect our overall gross profit margin will be lower in periods when revenues from our services, and particularly from traditional NDT services, has increased as a percentage of total revenues and will be higher in periods when revenues from our International or Products and Systems segments has increased as a percentage of total revenues. In fiscal 2010, the Service segment revenue growth was approximately 36% as compared to fiscal 2009, and approximately 84% of total revenues. Segment revenue growth for the Products and Systems segment and International segment was 9% and 6%, respectively. We expect this trend to continue and to the extent is does, our margins may decrease. Fluctuations in our gross profit margin may affect our level of profitability in any period, which may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Our business, and the industries we currently serve, are currently subject to governmental regulation, and may become subject to modified or new government regulation that may negatively impact our ability to market our asset protection solutions. We incur substantial costs in complying with various government regulations and licensing requirements. For example, the transportation and overnight storage of radioactive materials used in providing certain of our asset protection solutions is subject to regulation under federal and state laws and licensing requirements. Our Services segment is currently licensed to handle radioactive materials by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and 18 state regulatory agencies. If we allegedly fail to comply with these regulations, we may be investigated and incur significant legal expenses associated with such investigations, and if we are found to have violated these regulations, we may be fined or lose one or more of our licenses to perform further projects. While we are investigated, we may be required to suspend work on the project s associated with our alleged noncompliance, resulting in loss of profits or customers, and damage to our reputation. Many of our customers have strict requirements concerning safety or loss time occurrences. In the future, federal, state, provincial or local governmental agencies may seek to change current regulations or impose additional regulations on our business. Any modified or new government regulation applicable to our current or future asset protection solutions may negatively impact the marketing and provision of those solutions and increase our costs and the price of our solutions. Additionally, greenhouse gases that result from human activities, including burning of fossil fuels, have been the focus of increased scientific and political scrutiny and are being subjected to various legal requirements. International agreements, national laws, state laws and various regulatory schemes limit or otherwise regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, and additional restrictions are under consideration by different governmental entities. We derive a significant amount of revenues and profits from such industries, including oil and gas, power generation and transmission, and chemicals processing. Such regulations could negatively impact our customers, which could negatively impact the market for the services and products we provide. This could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of oper ations and cash flows. We rely on certification of our NDT solutions by industry standards-setting bodies. We currently have International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001-2000 certifications for each of Mistras Services, Physical Acoustics Corporation (PAC), Physical Acoustics Limited, and Envirocoustics S.A. and we have ISO 14001:2004 certification for Mistras Services and Physical Acoustics South America. Physical Acoustics South America also has an OHSAS 18001 certification. In addition, we currently have Nadcap (formerly National Aerospace and Defense Contractors Accreditation Program) certification for certain of our locations in Massachusetts, Ohio and Washington. We continually review our NDT solutions for compliance with the requirements of industry specification standards and the Nadcap special processes quality requirements. However, if we fail to maintain our ISO or Nadcap certifications, our business may be harmed because our customers generally require that we have ISO and Nadcap certification before they purchase our NDT solutions. 29 An inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon the maintenance and protection of the intellectual property related to our asset protection solutions. Patent protection is unavailable for certain aspects of the technology and operational processes important to our business. Any patent held by us or to be issued to us, or any of our pending patent applications, could be unenforceable, challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Some of our trademarks that are not in use may become available to others. To date, we have relied principally on copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, we have not obtained confidentiality agreements from all of our customers and vendors. Although we have entered into confiden tiality agreements with all of our employees in our Products and Systems segment and certain of our other employees involved in the development of our intellectual property, we cannot be certain that these agreements will be honored or enforceable. Some of our confidentiality agreements are not in writing, and some customers are subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential. Although we do not transfer ownership of some of our more advanced asset protection products and systems and, instead, sell to our customers services using these products and systems, in part, in an effort to protect the intellectual property upon which they are based, this strategy may not be successful and our customers or third parties may reverse engineer or otherwise derive this intellectual property and use it without our authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. The steps that we have taken or may t ake might not prevent misappropriation of the intellectual property on which we rely. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in jurisdictions outside the United States, as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. From time to time, third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs, divert resources away from our daily operations and result in the impairment of our intellectual property. Failure to adequately enforce our rights could cause us to lose valuable rights in our intellectual property and may negatively affect our business. We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation related to allegations that our asset protection solutions infringe on the intellectual property of others, which could prevent us from offering those solutions. Third-party patent applications and patents may be applicable to our asset protection solutions. As a result, third parties may in the future make infringement claims and other allegations that could subject us to intellectual property litigation relating to our solutions. Such litigation would be time consuming and expensive, divert attention and resources away from our daily operations, impede or prevent delivery of our solutions and require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our solutions and could cause us to pay substantial damages if we are found to be infringing on others’ intellectual property rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to seek one or more licenses from third parties in order to continue to offer the related solution, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. We may require additional capital to support business growth, which might not be available. We intend to continue making investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new, or enhance our current, asset protection solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our current stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities an d other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our credit agreement contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with financial or other covenants in our credit agreement, we may be required to repay indebtedness to our existing lenders, which may harm our liquidity. div> Provisions in our current credit agreement impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: ● create liens; ● make strategic acquisitions; ● make investments; 30 ● incur more debt; ● merge or consolidate; ● make dispositions of property; ● pay dividends and make distributions; ● enter into a new line of business; ● enter into transactions with affiliates; and ● enter into burdensome agreements. Our credit agreement also contains financial covenants that require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. At times in the past, we fell out of compliance with certain of these covenants and we may not be able to comply with such covenants in the future. Although prior instances of noncompliance were waived by our lenders, our failure to comply with these covenants in the future may result in the declaration of an event of default, which could prevent us from borrowing under our credit agreement. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under our credit agreement, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding, if any, under the agreement, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding and, in addition, our lenders may require us to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we then may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may become subject to commercial disputes or product liability claims, that could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business, by increasing our expenses and, if we do not prevail, by subjecting us to potential monetary damages and other remedies. We face potential liability for, among other things, contract, negligence and product liability claims related to our provision of asset protection solutions. For instance, our customers may assert that we have failed to perform under our agreements with them, or our customers or third parties may claim damages arising out of misuse of our products, the malfunctioning of our products due to design or manufacturing flaws, or the use of our products with components or systems not manufactured or sold by us. While we do carry product liability insurance, our coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability or other claims. Any of these claims or disputes could result in monetary damages and equitable or other remedies that could harm our financial position or operations. Even if we prevail in or set tle these claims or disputes, they may distract our management from operating our business and the cost of defending or settling them could harm our operating results, financial position and cash flows. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide us radioisotopes and certain electronic components and a material interruption in supply could prevent or limit our ability to fill orders for our products. We depend upon a limited number of third-party suppliers for the radioisotopes and certain electronic components we use to provide certain advanced asset protection solutions. We also utilize other commercial isotope and electronic component manufacturers located in the United States and overseas. To date, we have been able to obtain the required radioisotopes and electronic components for our asset protection solutions without any significant delays or interruptions. If we lose any of these suppliers or experience delays in obtaining these materials, we may be required to find and enter into supply arrangements with one or more replacement suppliers. Obtaining alternative sources of supply could involve significant delays and other costs and these supply sources may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. Any disruption of materials could delay delivery of our products, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and result in lost or deferred sales. Our revenue cycle can be lengthy, unpredictable and require significant employee time and financial resources with no assurances that we will realize revenues. Our sales cycles are often long and unpredictable. Many of our current and potential customers have extended budgeting and procurement processes. We believe that they also tend to be risk averse and follow industry trends rather than be the first to purchase new products or services, which can extend the lead time for or prevent acceptance of new products or services. Accordingly, they may take longer to reach a decision to purchase our solutions. This extended sales process, which often lasts between three and six months, requires the dedication of significant time and financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. It is not unusual for our current and potential customers to go through the entire sales process and not make any purchases. 31 Any real or perceived internal or external electronic security breaches in connection with the use of our asset protection solutions could harm our reputation, inhibit market acceptance of our solutions and cause us to lose customers. We and our customers use our asset protection solutions to compile and analyze sensitive or confidential customer-related information. In addition, some of our asset protection solutions allow us to remotely control and store equipment at commercial, institutional and industrial locations. Our asset protection solutions rely on the secure electronic transmission of proprietary data over the Internet or other networks. The occurrence or perception of security breaches in connection with our asset protection solutions or our customers’ concerns about Internet security or the security of our solutions, whether warranted or not, would likely harm our reputation or business, inhibit market acceptance of our asset protection solutions and cause us to lose customers, any of which would harm our financial condition and results of operati ons. We may come into contact with sensitive consumer information or data when we perform installation, maintenance or testing functions for our customers. Even the perception that we have improperly handled sensitive, confidential information would have a negative effect on our business. If, in handling this information, we fail to comply with privacy or security laws, we could incur civil liability to government agencies, customers and individuals whose privacy is compromised. In addition, third parties may attempt to breach our security or inappropriately harm our asset protection solutions through computer viruses, electronic break-ins and other disruptions. If a breach is successful, confidential information may be improperly obtained, for which we may be subject to lawsuits and other liabilities. Our international operations are subject to risks relating to non-U.S. operations. In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, we generated approximately 18%, 22% and 22% respectively, of our revenues outside the United States and we expect to increase our international presence over time. Our primary operations outside the United States are in Europe, Asia, Canada and South America. There are numerous risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: ● fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates; ● varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; ● compliance with applicable foreign regulations and licensing requirements, and U.S. regulation with respect to our business in other countries, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; ● the cost and uncertainty of obtaining data and creating solutions that are relevant to particular geographic markets; ● the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; ● the complexity of maintaining effective policies and procedures in locations around the world; ● the risks of divergent business expectations or difficulties in establishing joint ventures with foreign partners; ● political instability and civil unrest; ● restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad; ● restrictions or limitations on the repatriation of funds; and ● potentially adverse tax consequences. We are expanding our sales and marketing efforts in certain emerging markets, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. Expanding our business into emerging markets may present additional risks beyond those associated with more developed international markets. For example, in China and Russia, we may encounter risks associated with the ongoing transition from state business ownership to privatization. In any emerging market, we may face the risks of working in cash-based economies, dealing with inconsistent government policies and encountering sudden currency revaluations. 32 Risks related to our common stock We expect our quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may be misleading. You should not rely upon the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. Our revenues and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any future period. Our failure to meet these expectations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including: ● revenue volume during the period; ● development of new relationships and maintenance and enhancement of existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; ● the termination of existing customer contracts; ● demand for and acceptance of our asset protection solutions; ● delays in the implementation and delivery of our asset protection solutions, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues; ● delays or reductions in spending for asset protection solutions by our customers and potential customers; ● the long lead time associated with securing new customer contracts; ● changes in pricing for asset protection solutions; ● effects of recent acquisitions; ● fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ● changes in the price or availability of materials used in our services; and ● increased expenditures for sales and marketing, software development and other corporate activities. In addition to the effect our operating results may have on the market price of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may also be influenced by many other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; ● liquidity of the market for our common stock; ● changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts; ● general economic and stock market conditions; ● quarterly or annual earnings of other companies in our industry; ● future sales of our common stock; ● changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and ● the other factors described in this Risk Factors section. 33 The stock markets have generally experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including those in our industry. These changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate for reasons that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. A significant stockholder controls the direction of our business. The concentrated ownership of our common stock may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Dr. Sotirios J. Vahaviolos, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, owns approximately 43% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Dr. Vahaviolos effectively controls our Company and has the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with differing interests from Dr. Vahaviolos. We currently have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we do not anticipate declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the development, operation and growth of our business. In addition, our credit agreement prohibits us from paying dividends and future loan agreements may also prohibit the payment of dividends. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreci ation for a return on their investment. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price for our common stock to decline even if our business is doing well. Future sales by us or by our existing stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital in the future through the sale of our equity securities. Under our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, of which approximately 26,664,000 shares of common stock are outstanding as of August 1, 2010. In addition, the Company has approximately 2,960,000 shares of common stock underlying stock options that are outstanding as of August 1, 2010. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of sha res of our common stock, or the perception of such sales or issuances, would have on the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and of Delaware law, as well as some of our employment arrangements, could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: ● allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; ● require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; 34 ● authorize our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; ● require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting by prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; ● prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a plurality of stock to elect some directors; and ● establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and limit the right to call special meetings of stockholders to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the board of directors acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of directors or the Secretary upon the written request of stockholders entitled to cast not less than 35% of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting. Some of our employment arrangements and stock option agreements provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of restricted stock and options, upon a change of control. These provisions may discourage or prevent a change of control. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. Our internal controls over financial reporting will be subject to the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a ma terial adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our internal controls over financial reporting will be subject to the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the course of preparing our 2011 annual report on Form 10-K. We and our independent registered public accounting firm reported to our audit committee certain significant deficiencies related to the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the registrant’s financial reporting. During fiscal 2010, we increased our efforts to establish comprehensive documentation of our internal controls, and we now test these co ntrols on a periodic basis in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Despite our efforts, we still have a number of significant deficiencies we need to address related to the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We need further improvement in order to be in full compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If the results of our additional efforts are not successful or we are not able to demonstrate that the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404, we and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information in a timely and reliable manner, may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of applicable st ock exchange listing rules and may breach the covenants under our credit facilities. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements, which could significantly harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 