ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are exposed to risks in the operation of our business. Some of these risks are common to all companies doing business in the industry in which we operate and some are unique to our business. These risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating our business. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. We are a new independent public company which has increased our expenses and administrative workload. Following the Spin-off, we began operating as a stand-alone publicly traded company. Expenses as a result of our being a public company include additional amounts for legal and accounting services, governance and compliance costs, Board of Director fees and expenses, transfer agent fees, additional insurance costs, printing and filing fees and amounts for treasury, tax, investor and public relations. Other than short-term transition services charges which are expected to be approximately $0.3 million, we will no longer incur an allocated corporate expense charge from BCO, which was $4.1 million for the ten months ended October 31, 2008, $8.0 million in 2007 and $7.1 million in 2006. Securities laws and applicable exchange listing requirements impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Difficulties in complying with such laws and other legal and accounting requirements applicable to public companies could adversely affect our market value. We are subject to contractual limitations on the use of the Brink’s brand name and may not achieve similar brand recognition upon the roll out of our new brand. Prior to the Spin-off, we operated as a subsidiary of BCO, and marketed our products and services using the Brink’s brand name and logos. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a Brand Licensing Agreement with a subsidiary of BCO that grants us the right to use certain trademarks, including trademarks that contain the word Brink’s, in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico in connection with the provision of certain products and services. These rights will extend for up to no more than three years (that is, until October 31, 2011) (hereinafter, the “License Period”), subject to certain terms and conditions, after which we will no longer have the right to use the Brink’s name. In addition, following the expiration of a five-year non-compete agreement between us and BCO on October 31, 2013, BCO will be able to operate a separate alarm monitoring business using the Brink’s name in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. 9 Table of Contents Limitations on our use of the Brink’s brand could adversely affect our business and profitability. During the License Period, we will establish a new brand name for our business. In doing so, we will incur substantial costs associated with developing and marketing our new brand. There is uncertainty regarding the timing, duration and the amount of expense that may be incurred in the branding effort. We anticipate an incremental investment that could range from $100 to $150 million, primarily marketing expense, spread out over a minimum of 24 months after the rollout of the new brand commences, which we currently expect will begin in the third quarter of 2009. These estimates are dependent on general economic and strategic marketing decisions that will be made during the development and rollout of the new brand. As we introduce our new brand name to potential and existing customers, there is some risk that the volume of new installations and the disconnect rate could be negatively impacted. Despite our efforts, we may not be successful in achieving an acceptable level of recognition of our new brand. If we are not successful in achieving recognition for our new brand, our competitive position may be weakened and we may lose market share. However, these risks may be mitigated as we currently anticipate using the Brink’s brand name concurrent with our new brand during the initial phases of the launch of our new brand in the third quarter of 2009. The terms of our tax matters agreement with BCO may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. The Tax Matters Agreement we entered into with BCO, as a part of the Spin-off, provides for certain limitations on our ability to pursue strategic or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business and may discourage or delay a change of control that may be considered favorable to our shareholders. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, during the two-year period following the Spin-off, until October 31, 2010, we may not, unless certain conditions are satisfied, enter into or authorize (a) any transaction resulting in the acquisition of our stock or assets beyond certain thresholds, (b) any merger, (c) any issuance of equity securities beyond certain thresholds or (d) any repurchase of our common stock beyond certain thresholds. If our Spin-off from BCO were to lose its tax-free status due to actions taken by us, we would be required to indemnify BCO for certain liabilities under our Tax Matters Agreement with BCO. BCO received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the Spin-off qualified for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The ruling was based upon representations by BCO that necessary conditions had been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. If the IRS were to determine that the Spin-off does not qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, then a U.S. holder that received our shares in the Spin-off would be treated as having received a distribution to the extent of the fair market value of the shares received on the Spin-off date. That distribution would be treated as taxable dividend income to the extent of such holder’s ratable share of the current and accumulated earnings and profits of BCO, if any. Any amount that exceeds such share of earnings and profits of BCO would be treated first as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in its shares of common stock of BCO (thus reducing such adjusted tax basis) with any remaining amounts being treated as capital gains. Generally, taxes resulting from the Spin-off failing to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. Federal income tax purposes would be imposed on BCO and BCO’s shareholders. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, however, we would be required to indemnify BCO and its affiliates against all tax-related liabilities caused by such failure to the extent those liabilities arose as a result of an action taken by us or our affiliates or otherwise resulted from any breach of any representation, covenant or obligation of us or our affiliates under the Tax Matters Agreement or any other agreement entered into by us in connection with the Spin-off. We are susceptible to downturns in the housing market and consumer discretionary income, which may inhibit our ability to sustain subscriber base growth rates. Demand for alarm monitoring services is affected by the turnover in the housing market. Downturns in the rate of sale of new and existing homes, which we believe drives more than 50% of our new customer volume in 10 Table of Contents any given year, would reduce opportunities to make sales of new security systems and services and reduce opportunities to take over existing security systems. With the extended slowdown in housing sales and the deterioration in the overall consumer environment, our new installation growth rate slowed during 2006 and 2007. We sustained a decline in new customer installations in 2008 as compared to 2007. In addition, current security alarm customers may decide to disconnect our services in an effort to reduce their monthly spending. Our long-term revenue growth rate depends on installations exceeding disconnects. If the housing market downturn is prolonged, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected. We rely on a significant number of our subscribers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time. We incur significant upfront cash costs for each new subscriber. It requires a substantial amount of time for us to receive cash payments (net of our recurring cash costs) from a particular subscriber that are sufficient to offset this upfront cost, with that period currently averaging approximately four years. Accordingly, our long-term profitability is dependent on our subscribers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time. This requires that we minimize our rate of subscriber disconnects, or attrition. Factors that can increase disconnects include customers who relocate and do not reconnect, problems with our service quality, an economic slowdown and the affordability of our service. If we fail to keep our subscribers for a sufficiently long period of time, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Shifts in our customers’ choice of telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact our business and require significant capital expenditures. Certain elements of our operating model have historically relied on our customers’ continued selection and use of traditional land-line telecommunications to transmit alarm signals to our monitoring centers. There is a growing trend for customers to switch to the exclusive use of cell-phone, satellite, or internet communication technology in their homes and businesses, which requires customers to upgrade to alternative and often more expensive technologies to transmit alarm signals, which generally result in increased recurring revenues for us. This, however, could increase our customer attrition rates, slow down our new subscriber rates, or reduce our ability to attract a sufficient volume of new customers. In the future, we may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If we are unable to adapt timely to changing technologies, market conditions, or customer preferences, it could adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The monitored security alarm industry is subject to significant competition and pricing pressures. We experience competitive pricing pressures on both installation fees and monitoring rates. Several significant competitors offer installation fees that match or are lower than our prices. Other competitors charge significantly more for installation but, in many cases, less for monitoring. Competitive pressure on monitoring and service fees is significant. We believe that the monitoring and service fees we offer are generally competitive with rates offered by other major security companies. Continued pricing pressure could adversely impact our customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We also face potential competition from improvements in self-monitoring systems, which enable customers to monitor their home environment without third-party involvement. Advances in self-monitoring systems could progress to the point where we could be at a competitive disadvantage. Similarly, it is possible that one or more of our competitors could develop a significant technical advantage over us that allows them to provide additional service or better quality service or to lower their price, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Either development could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We intend to pursue additional customer acquisition channels and strategic alliances, which may cause operating margins to suffer. We intend to expand our presence in the commercial alarm installation and monitoring market. We will also continue to evaluate other business opportunities, including expanding our services, adding customer acquisition channels, and forming new alliances with companies to market our security systems and services. This could result in our cost of investment in new subscribers growing at a faster rate than installations and related recurring revenue. Additionally, any new alliances or customer acquisition channels could have higher cost structures than our current arrangements, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital. In the event that working capital requirements exceeded operating cash flow, we might have to draw on our credit facility or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available. We rely on third party providers for the components of our security systems and any failure or interruption in products or services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business. The components for the security systems that we install are manufactured by third parties. We are therefore susceptible to interruptions in supply and to the receipt of components that do not meet our high standards. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business. We exercise little control over our suppliers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the products and services they provide. Any interruption in supply could cause delays in installations and repairs and the loss of current and potential customers. Also, if a previously installed component were found to be defective, we might not be able to recover the costs associated with its repair or replacement, and the diversion of technical personnel to address such an issue could affect subscriber, revenue, and profit growth. We are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. If a subscriber believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or security system failure, he or she may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment could be substantial. Substantially all of our customer contracts contain provisions limiting our liability; however, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that these limitations may be deemed not applicable. We carry insurance of various types, including general liability and professional liability insurance in amounts we consider adequate and customary for our industry. Some of our insurance policies, and the laws of some states, may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence. If we incur increased losses related to employee acts or omissions, or system failure, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, or if we are unable to receive reimbursements from insurance carriers, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could be assessed penalties for false alarms. Some local governments impose assessments, fines, penalties and limitations on either subscribers or the alarm companies for false alarms. A few municipalities have adopted ordinances under which both permit and alarm dispatch fees are charged directly to the alarm companies. Our alarm service contracts generally allow us to pass these charges on to customers. If more local governments were to impose assessments, fines or penalties, our customers might find these additional charges prohibitive and the growth of our subscriber base could be adversely affected. Further, to the extent we are unable to pass assessments, fines and penalties on to our customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies. Police departments in a limited number of U.S. cities do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. We have offered affected customers the option of receiving response from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. If more police departments were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain subscribers could be negatively impacted and our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our business operates in a regulated industry. Our operations and employees are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection, licensing and other laws and regulations. Most states in which we operate have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. Our business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline telephone companies are currently regulated by both the federal and state governments. Our Canadian operation is subject to the laws of Canada, British Columbia and Alberta. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or we failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (which Sections were adopted as part of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “prospects,” “outlook,” and similar words or expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may,” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any anticipated results, performance or achievements. We disclaim any intention to, and undertake no obligation to, revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, a future event, or otherwise. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to risks inherent in our Spin-off from our former parent corporation, including increased costs and reduced profitability associated with operating as an independent company, the demand for our products and services, the ability to identify and execute further cost and operational improvements and efficiencies in our core business, the actions of competitors, our ability to successfully develop and market a new brand, our ability to identify strategic opportunities and integrate them successfully, our ability to maintain subscriber growth, the number of household moves, the level of home sales or new home construction, potential instability in housing credit markets, our estimated reconnection experience, our ability to cost-effectively develop or incorporate new systems or technology in a timely manner, our ability to balance the cost of acquiring customers with the profit from serving existing customers, our ability to keep disconnect rates relatively low, the availability and cost of capital, and general business conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents 