Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, commercial and construction and land lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and commercial business loans. We have increased our emphasis on originating commercial real estate and commercial business loans in recent years, and such loans have increased as a proportion of our loan portfolio from 26.9% in the aggregate at December 31, 2004 to an aggregate of 35.3% at December 31, 2008. Commercial real estate lending and commercial business lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved in these loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At December 31, 2008, the outstanding balances of our largest single commercial real estate loan and commercial business loan were $5.8 million and $2.9 million, respectively. While we have had relatively nominal charge-offs of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans in recent years, if one of these large loans were to become non-performing, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, our relatively recent emphasis on increasing our originations of commercial real estate and commercial business loans means that our portfolio of these loans is significantly weighted with loans which are not well seasoned and are generally perceived to be more susceptible to adverse economic conditions than older loans. In addition to commercial real estate and commercial business loans, Home Bank holds a significant portfolio of construction and land loans. At December 31, 2008, Home Bank’s construction and land loans amounted to $35.4 million. Construction and land loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. The nature of the allowance for loan losses requires that we must use assumptions regarding, among other factors, individual loans and the economy. While we are not aware of any specific, material impediments impacting any of our builder/developer borrowers at this time, there continues to be nationwide reports of significant problems which have adversely affected many property developers and builders as well as the institutions that have provided them loans. If any of the builder/developers to which we have extended construction and land loans experience the type of difficulties that are being reported, it could have adverse consequences upon our future results of operations. Our allowance for loans losses may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. While we are not aware of any specific factors indicating a deficiency in the amount of our allowance for loan losses, in light of the current economic slowdown, the increased number of foreclosures and lower real estate values, one of the most pressing current issues faced by financial institutions is the adequacy of their allowance for loan losses. Federal bank regulators have increased their scrutiny of the level of the allowance for losses maintained by regulated institutions. Many banks and other lenders are reporting significantly higher provisions to their allowance for loan losses, which are materially impacting their earnings. In the event that we have to increase our allowance for loan losses, it would have an adverse effect on our results in future periods. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $2.6 million, while our total loan portfolio was $335.6 million at such date. 12 Table of Contents We may not succeed in our plan to grow which could reduce future profitability. We intend to grow our branch system by opening additional offices. We opened two new full-service banking offices in 2008 and we expect to open an additional full-service banking office in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in 2010. Typically, it takes several years for a new banking office to become profitable, and this could adversely affect our earnings in future periods. There also is a risk that, as we geographically expand our lending area, we may not be as successful in assessing the credit risks which are inherent in different markets. In addition, we may seek to either acquire other financial institutions and/or branch offices. Our ability to successfully acquire other institutions depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate such institutions into our franchise. Our experience in mergers is limited to one acquisition in 2006 of a one branch building and loan association located in Crowley, Louisiana, approximately 20 miles west of Lafayette. Many of our competitors have much greater experience than we do in analyzing and carrying out acquisitions. If we were to acquire another institution in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected if our analysis of the acquisition of such institution was not complete and correct or our integration efforts were not successful. Currently, we have no agreements or understandings with anyone regarding an acquisition. Our business is geographically concentrated in south central Louisiana, which makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Most of our loans are to individuals and businesses located generally in south central Louisiana. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. While economic conditions in south central Louisiana have been relatively good in recent periods, the concentration of our business operations in south central Louisiana makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Declines in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for the loans we make. Historically, the oil and gas industry has constituted a significant component of the local economy in south central Louisiana. The oil and gas industry remains an important factor in the local economy in the markets that Home Bank operates in and downturns in the local oil and gas industry could adversely affect Home Bank. The current economic environment poses significant challenges and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although the economy in south central Louisiana continues to be relatively strong, particularly in comparison to many other areas of the country and the United States as a whole, there has been some recent softening of certain economic indicators in our markets. In addition, recessionary conditions in the broader economy could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in the Company’s market areas. In particular, adverse developments in the national or international markets in the oil and gas industries could have an adverse impact on economic conditions in the Company’s market areas. In addition, certain mortgage-backed securities owned by the Company are backed by pools of mortgage loans secured by properties located throughout the United States, including areas in California and Florida that currently are experiencing elevated loan delinquency rates. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a $2.8 million non-cash charge for the other-than-temporary impairment of certain mortgage-backed securities. As the recession continues, and if economic conditions deteriorate further in those areas of the country in which the properties securing loans underlying the Company’s mortgage-backed securities are located, the Company could be required to record additional impairment charges on its mortgage-backed securities portfolio. The impact of current economic conditions on the Company’s financial results could also include increased levels of nonperforming loans, provisions for loan losses, and expense associated with loan collection efforts. Additions to the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net earnings and capital and could hinder the Company’s ability to grow. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, John W. Bordelon. Mr. Bordelon has served as President of the Bank for 15 years. The loss of Mr. Bordelon could have an adverse effect on us, as he is central 13 Table of Contents to many aspects of our business operations and management. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Bordelon. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. If general market rates of interest increase, our interest expense on deposits and borrowings would likely increase which would adversely affect our interest rate spread and net interest income. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the Bank’s net portfolio value. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At December 31, 2008, in the event of an immediate and sustained increase of 200 basis points in interest rates, our net portfolio value would decrease by $4.4 million or 4%. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We are subject to extensive federal governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and our operations in the future. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We are significantly smaller than the three largest depository institutions operating in our market areas. The financial resources of these larger competitors may permit them to pay higher interest rates on their deposits and to be more aggressive in new loan originations. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, more advanced technological capabilities, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future which would have an adverse effect on our future earnings. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio between 1.15% and 1.50% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of a large financial institution and several smaller ones have significantly increased the Deposit 14 Table of Contents Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio to 0.40% as of December 31, 2008, 79 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. On February 27, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation released a seven-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC also adopted an interim rule imposing a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on insured institutions on June 30, 2009, payable on September 30, 2009. The interim rule also permits the FDIC to impose an additional special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. However, FDIC Chairman Bair has indicated in a letter to Senate Banking Committee Chairman Dodd that, if the U.S. Congress passes a bill increasing the FDIC’s authority to borrow from the U.S. Department of Treasury, the FDIC would reduce the proposed special assessment. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation on such an increase in borrowing authority. The actions of the U.S. government for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, may not achieve the intended effect, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability. As part of the EESA, the Treasury Department has developed a Capital Purchase Program to purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions. The Capital Purchase Program was designed to strengthen the capital and liquidity positions of viable institutions and to encourage banks and thrifts to increase lending to creditworthy borrowers. The EESA also establishes a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that gives the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the ability to provide a guarantee for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts at eligible insured institutions. For noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts, a 10 basis point annual rate surcharge will be applied to deposit amounts in excess of $250,000. We have elected not to participate in the Capital Purchase Program and opted out of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The U.S. Congress or federal banking regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system and such changes may adversely affect the operations of Home Bank. In addition, the EESA may not have the intended beneficial impact on the financial markets or the banking industry. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to the Troubled Asset Relief Program or the program does not function as intended, our prospects and results of operations could be adversely effected. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 