Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business There are increased risks involved with commercial real estate, including multi-family residential, commercial and industrial and construction and land lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. Our commercial real estate loans increased by 176.7% over the past four years. During the same period, our commercial and industrial loans increased by 102.2%. Commercial real estate lending and commercial and industrial lending generally are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors. As a result of the larger loan balances typically involved in these loans, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2013, the largest outstanding balances of our commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans were $9.4 million and $3.0 million, respectively. If a large loan were to become non-performing, as we experienced in 2012 and 2013, it can have a significant impact on our results of operations. Because we intend to continue our growth in commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans, our credit risk exposure may increase and we may need to make additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect our future results of operations. In addition to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans, Home Bank holds a significant portfolio of construction and land loans. As of December 31, 2013, Home Bank’s construction and land loans amounted to $83.3 million, or 11.8% of our loan portfolio. Construction and land loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans due primarily to the critical nature of the initial estimates of a property’s value upon completion of construction compared to the estimated costs, including interest, of construction as well as other assumptions. If the estimates upon which construction loans are made prove to be inaccurate, we may be confronted with projects that, upon completion, have values which are below the loan amounts. If the Bank is forced to liquidate the collateral associated with such loans at values less than the remaining loan balance, it could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. While we are not aware of any specific factors indicating a deficiency in the amount of our allowance for loan losses, in light of the current economic environment, one of the most pressing issues faced by financial institutions is the adequacy of their allowance for loan losses. Federal bank regulators have increased their scrutiny of the level of the allowance for losses maintained by regulated institutions. In the event that we have to increase our allowance for loan losses beyond current levels, it would have an adverse effect on our results in future periods. As of December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $6.9 million, or 1.0% of total loans. 11 Table of Contents Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate and our estimated loss sharing receivable in our FDIC-assisted acquisition may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loan portfolios, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In our FDIC-assisted acquisition of Statewide, which included loss sharing agreements, we recorded a loss sharing receivable that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in the acquired Statewide loan portfolio. In determining the size of the loss sharing receivable, we analyzed the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, economic conditions and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are incorrect, our current receivable may be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and increased loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses would have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to obtain reimbursement on loans (“Covered Loans”) and repossessed assets (collectively “Covered Assets”) covered under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreements. Management must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis our compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on Covered Assets. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, management may decide to forgo loss sharing coverage on certain assets to allow greater flexibility over the management of certain assets. As of December 31, 2013, $24.9 million, or 2.5%, of the Company’s assets were covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements. At such date, the loss sharing agreement with respect to $22.4 million of covered commercial assets will expire in March 2015 (five years from the date of the acquisition), with the remaining loss sharing agreement on $2.5 million of covered residential assets expiring in March 2020 (10 years from the date of the acquisition). Under the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements, the assignment or transfer of the loss sharing agreements to another entity generally requires the written consent of the FDIC. In addition, the Bank may not assign or otherwise transfer the loss sharing agreements during their terms without the prior written consent of the FDIC. We are subject to periodic examinations by the FDIC with respect to our compliance with the provisions of the FDIC loss sharing agreements. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the provisions could result in a specific asset or group of assets losing their loss sharing coverage. No assurances can be given that we will manage the Covered Assets in such a way as to always maintain loss sharing coverage on all such assets. Future adjustments to the carrying value of our FDIC loss sharing receivable (“FDIC Asset”) could adversely affect our future results of operations. In connection with our March 2010 acquisition from the FDIC of certain assets and liabilities of Statewide, we recorded an FDIC Asset, representing the portion of estimated losses covered by two loss sharing agreements between the Bank and the FDIC. The initial amount of the FDIC Asset was $34.4 million. The carrying value of the FDIC Asset is reviewed and adjusted quarterly based upon, among other factors, our estimates of the amount and timing of anticipated cash flows received from the loss share agreements. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had an FDIC Asset in the amount of $12.7 million. The Company’s remaining FDIC Asset consists of two primary components: Schedule A (single family residential mortgage and home equity loans) and Schedule B (all other Covered Loans). The FDIC Asset related to Schedule A loans totaled $4.2 million at December 31, 2013. Schedule A loss share protection will expire in March 2020. The FDIC Asset related to Schedule B loans totaled $8.5 million at December 31, 2013. Schedule B loss share protection will expire in March 2015. In the event that we revise our cash flow estimations on the FDIC Asset, we could be required to record additional asset amortization expense. At the end of each of the loss share coverage periods, any remaining amount of the FDIC Asset will be charged-off, which will reduce income for that period. 12 Table of Contents Other than temporary declines in the value of our investment securities may require us to take additional charges to earnings. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) throughout the year. Each investment with a fair value less than book value is reviewed quarterly. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management’s review concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. As of December 31, 2013, our investment securities portfolio included 14 non-agency mortgage-backed securities with an aggregate amortized cost of $9.8 million, an aggregate fair value of $9.7 million and a net unrealized loss of $16,000. Delinquencies and defaults in the mortgage loans underlying these securities may adversely affect the cash flows received by us and may result in a conclusion in future periods that the securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. Such a conclusion of OTTI would require us to take additional charges to earnings to write down the value of these securities. We may not succeed in our plan to grow, which could reduce future profitability. Over the past several years, we have grown our branch system by opening additional offices and through acquisitions of other financial institutions. Typically, it takes several years for a new banking office to become profitable, and this could adversely affect our earnings in future periods. There also is a risk that, as we geographically expand our lending area, we may not be as successful in assessing the credit risks which are inherent in different markets. Our ability to successfully acquire other institutions depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate such institutions into our franchise. Our experience in mergers and acquisitions consists of an acquisition in 2006 of a building and loan association located in Crowley, Louisiana, an FDIC-assisted acquisition in 2010 of a bank with branches located in the Northshore (of Lake Ponchartrain) region of Louisiana, an acquisition in 2011 of a savings bank with branches located in Greater New Orleans and an acquisition in February 2014 of a national bank headquartered in Natchez, Mississippi with branches located in Natchez and Vicksburg, Mississippi and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Failure to successfully integrate the systems and operations of our most recent acquisition, Britton & Koontz Capital Corporation, acquired in February 2014, could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations. If we were to acquire another institution in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected if our analysis of the acquisition of such institution was not complete and correct or our integration efforts were not successful. Currently, we have no agreements or understandings with anyone regarding a future acquisition. Our business is geographically concentrated in south Louisiana and west Mississippi, which makes us vulnerable to downturns in the local economy. Most of our loans are to individuals and businesses located in south Louisiana and west Mississippi. Regional economic conditions affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans. While economic conditions in most of our market areas have been stronger than many areas of the United States in recent years, the concentration of our business operations makes us vulnerable to economic downturns in the market areas in which we operate. Declines in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for the loans we make. Historically, the oil and gas industry has constituted a significant component of the economy in south Louisiana. The oil and gas industry remains an important factor in the local economy in most of the markets that we operate in and downturns in the oil and gas industry could adversely affect our operations. A natural disaster, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Since a considerable portion of our business is conducted in south Louisiana, most of our credit exposure is in that area. Historically, south Louisiana has been vulnerable to natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods and tornadoes. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information 13 Table of Contents systems. A natural disaster or recurring power outages may also impair the value of our loan portfolio, as uninsured or underinsured losses, including losses from business disruption, may reduce our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. Disasters may also reduce the value of the real estate securing our loans, impairing our ability to recover on defaulted loans through foreclosure and making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections (and maintain business interruption insurance), these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters in our market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The current economic environment poses significant challenges and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although the economy in most of our markets continues to be stronger in comparison to many other areas of the country and the United States as a whole, challenging conditions in the broader economy could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in the Company’s market areas. In particular, adverse developments in the national or international markets in the oil and gas industry could have an adverse impact on economic conditions in the Company’s market areas. The impact of current economic conditions on the Company’s financial results could also include increased levels of nonperforming loans, provisions for loan losses and expense associated with loan collection efforts. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. If general market rates of interest increase, our interest expense on deposits and borrowings would likely increase which could adversely affect our interest rate spread and net interest income. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We face strong competition which adversely affects our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We are significantly smaller than the larger depository institutions operating in our market areas. The financial resources of these larger competitors may permit them to pay higher interest rates on their deposits and to be more aggressive in new loan originations. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Some of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, more advanced technological capabilities, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Vigorous competition from both bank and non-bank organizations is expected to continue. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank 14 Table of Contents rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Historically low interest rates are expected to adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past several years, it has been the policy of the FRB to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at historically lower levels. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been a contributing factor to increases in net interest income in the short term. Our ability to further lower our interest expense is limited as these interest rate levels already are at very low levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets are expected to continue to decrease. The FRB has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) is likely to decrease, which is expected to have an adverse effect on our profitability. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital as standards for banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. Our goodwill may be determined to be impaired at a future date depending on the results of periodic impairment tests. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if necessary. According to applicable accounting requirements, acceptable valuation methods include present-value measurements based on multiples of earnings or revenues, or similar performance measures. If the quoted market price of our common stock were to decline significantly, or if it was determined that the carrying amount of our goodwill exceeded its implied fair value, we would be required to write down the asset recorded for goodwill. This, in turn, would result in a charge to earnings and, thus, a reduction in shareholders’ equity. See Notes 2 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our goodwill and the required impairment test. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. Our ability to adequately conduct and grow our business is dependent on our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways including employee fraud, customer fraud, and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees and automated systems, including the automated systems used by acquired entities and third parties, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or tampering of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are also subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. Failure to maintain an appropriate operational infrastructure can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions, and noncompliance with various laws and regulations. 15 Table of Contents We continuously monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. We also face risk from the integration of new infrastructure platforms and/or new third party providers of such platforms into its existing businesses. Changes in accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies are fundamental to the understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the financial statements by affecting the value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because materially different amounts may be reported if different estimates or assumptions were used. If such estimates or assumptions underlying the financial statements are incorrect, we could experience material losses. From time to time, Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of such standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, it is possible, if unlikely, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may be subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent conduct of our loan customers, third party service providers and employees. When we make loans to individuals or entities, we rely upon information supplied by borrowers and other third parties, including information contained in the applicant’s loan application, property appraisal reports, title information and the borrower’s net worth, liquidity and cash flow information. While we attempt to verify information provided through available sources, we cannot be certain all such information is correct or complete. Our reliance on incorrect or incomplete information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure we use, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or users. Such problems could jeopardize the security of our customers personal information and other information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers, or inhibit current and potential customers from our Internet banking services, any of all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have security measures designed to mitigate the possibility of break-ins, breaches and other disruptive problems, including firewalls and penetration testing, there can be no assurance that such security measures will be effective in preventing such problems. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 