Risk Factors" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and others such as: • announcements of regulatory approval or disapproval of ATX-101 or any future product candidates; • delays in the commercialization of ATX-101 or any future product candidates; • negative perceptions with regard to the acquisition of rights to ATX-101 from Bayer; • results from, and any delays in, our trials for ATX-101, or any other future clinical development programs; • changes in revenue and earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates or guidance, including our ability to meet our future revenue and operating profit or loss estimates or guidance; 69 Table of Contents • failure or discontinuation of any of our research and development programs; • announcements relating to future licensing, collaboration or development agreements; • acquisitions and sales of new products, technologies or businesses; • manufacturing and supply issues related to our product candidates for clinical trials or future product candidates for commercialization; • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our future competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, acquisitions or capital commitments; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • any major changes in our board of directors or management; • new legislation in the United States or other foreign territories relating to the sale or pricing of pharmaceuticals; • FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • product liability claims or other litigation or public concern about the safety of our drug candidates or future drugs; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; and • general economic conditions in the United States and abroad. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that may have been unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of our management would be diverted from the operation of our business. We are an "emerging growth company" and as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and we are taking advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we are relying on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) December 31, 2017 (the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering), (2) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion, (3) the last day of the fiscal year in which we are deemed 70 Table of Contents to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (4) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. If we sell or issue shares of our common stock in future financings or transactions, stockholders may experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase or issuance of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders would experience additional dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of February 23, 2015, our executive officers, directors, and their respective affiliates beneficially owned approximately 9.5% of our outstanding voting stock. These stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position and may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that existing stockholders may feel are in their best interest. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of February 23, 2015, we have a total of approximately 22.8 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, as of February 23, 2015, approximately 5.7 million shares of common stock were either subject to outstanding stock awards or reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; 71 Table of Contents • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the required approval of at least 662/3% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, these provisions apply even if we were to receive an offer that some stockholders may consider beneficial. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Section 203, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other exceptions, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. In addition, as permitted by Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated bylaws and our indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and officers provide that: • We will indemnify our directors and officers for serving us in those capacities or for serving other business enterprises at our request, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that a corporation may indemnify such person if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the registrant and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. • We may, in our discretion, indemnify employees and agents in those circumstances where indemnification is permitted by applicable law. • We are required to advance expenses, as incurred, to our directors and officers in connection with defending a proceeding, except that such directors or officers shall undertake to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification. 72 Table of Contents • We will not be obligated pursuant to our amended and restated bylaws to indemnify a person with respect to proceedings initiated by that person against us or our other indemnitees, except with respect to proceedings authorized by our board of directors or brought to enforce a right to indemnification. • The rights conferred in our amended and restated bylaws are not exclusive, and we are authorized to enter into indemnification agreements with our directors, officers, employees and agents and to obtain insurance to indemnify such persons. • We may not retroactively amend our amended and restated bylaw provisions to reduce our indemnification obligations to directors, officers, employees and agents. Our employment agreements with our executive officers may require us to pay severance benefits to any of those persons who are terminated in connection with a change in control of us, which could harm our financial condition or results. Certain of our executive officers are parties to employment agreements that contain change in control and severance provisions providing for cash payments for severance and other benefits and acceleration of vesting of stock options in the event of a termination of employment in connection with a change in control. The accelerated vesting of options could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and harm the market price of our common stock. The payment of these severance benefits could harm our financial condition and results. In addition, these potential severance payments may discourage or prevent third parties from seeking a business combination with us. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, our stockholders ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Additionally, the terms of our credit facility restrict our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Since we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders ability to receive a return on their investment will depend on any future appreciation in the market value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate or even maintain the price at which our holders have purchased it. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 