D. Risk Factors An investment in our shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business David J. Stern, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is also the sole owner of DJS, which is our primary law firm customer, and he may, under certain circumstances, have interests that differ from or conflict with the interests of our shareholders. David J. Stern, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is the sole shareholder of DJS, which is our primary law firm client. As a result of this relationship with both us and DJS, Mr. Stern may encounter conflicts of interest in the execution of his duties on behalf of us. These conflicts may not be resolved in a manner favorable to us. For example, he may be precluded by his ethical obligations as an attorney or may otherwise be reluctant to take actions on our behalf that are in our best interests but are not in the best interests of DJS or its clients. Further, as a licensed attorney, he may be obligated to take actions on behalf of DJS or its clients that are not in our best interests. Mr. Stern has other direct and indirect relationships with us that could cause similar conflicts, including as our largest creditor. See Note 2 to the combined financial statements of the operating subsidiaries and “Item 7(B). Related Party Transactions” in this Report for a description of these relationships. 2 David J. Stern plays a critical role in our success and the success of DJS. Should Mr. Stern become incapacitated or die, it is likely that our business and results would be adversely affected to a significant degree. Although we and DJS each have substantial management teams that are capable and experienced, the majority of the client relationships of DJS and our customer relationships were established and continue to be managed by Mr. Stern. If Mr. Stern becomes unable to perform his duties under his employment agreement or dies, it is possible that the client relationships of DJS, and therefore the volume of referrals that we receive from DJS, would suffer, materially reducing our revenues and profitability. Mr. Stern received a significant amount of cash consideration in connection with the Transaction, which may reduce his incentive to devote his full efforts to continue to develop and expand our business and the business of DJS. Under the terms of the Transaction, Mr. Stern and his affiliates received approximately $58.5 million in initial cash in exchange for contributing their business to DAL, plus another approximately $88 million in the Stern Deferral Note (defined herein) and post-closing cash. Those amounts will be paid to the contributors of the business acquired by DAL (DJS, PTA, DSI and David J. Stern (“Stern,” together with DSI, PTA and DJS the “Stern Contributors”)) regardless of how we perform. Although he also has a substantial equity stake in DAL, which gives him an incentive to improve our operations, there can be no assurance that he will do so, or that his efforts to do so, however diligent, will succeed. Mr. Stern has recommended four members of our Board of Directors, which may make it difficult or impossible to remove him as our CEO, even if that were considered desirable. We agreed to have Mr. Stern propose four of seven directors for election by our shareholders. In the event that Mr. Stern does not diligently and faithfully discharge his responsibilities as our CEO, the fact that he chose four of our directors may make taking disciplinary action against him difficult, if not impossible, notwithstanding that all of the directors will have fiduciary duties to our shareholders to do so. In such a case, the only recourse available to our shareholders may be to bring an action against the directors for breach of their fiduciary duty, but as with any litigation, it can be costly, time-consuming and drawn out, and there is no assurance that it would succeed. If the number of case files referred to us by DJS, which is our principal foreclosure processing service law firm client, do not increase, our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy could be adversely affected. We have one law firm customer in Florida, DJS. Each foreclosure, bankruptcy, eviction, litigation, and other mortgage default related case file referred to DJS will typically have a fixed fee associated with it that is based on a schedule established by government sponsored entities, such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. We are paid a fixed fee by DJS for the services we render to DJS. Therefore, the success of our mortgage default processing services business is tied to the number of these case files that DJS receives from its mortgage lending and mortgage loan servicing firm clients and our ability to control costs. There is little or no opportunity for us to increase revenues on a per file basis unless the fee schedule that DJS has with its clients is adjusted upward. Such upward adjustments may or may not keep pace with increases in our costs. Because DJS receives a fixed fee from its clients, it has limited financial ability to pay increased fees to us. As a result, if the number of referrals that we receive through DJS decreases, it would likely result in a decrease in our revenues and profits. The majority of file referrals to DJS come from fewer than a dozen lenders and loan servicing firms. If DJS were to lose any of these sources of business, in whole or in part, it would adversely affect our financial performance. In 2009, the top ten clients for DJS, on an aggregate basis, accounted for 89.5% of case files referred to DJS for mortgage default and other processing services, and its largest single customer accounted for 30% of DJS’ total foreclosure file volumes for the same period. Our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy could be adversely affected if (i) our current law firm customer, DJS, loses business from these clients; (ii) these clients are affected by changes in the market and industry or other factors that render them unable to pay for the services we have rendered; or (iii) our law firm customer is unable to attract additional business from current or new clients for any reason, including any of the following: a decline in the quality of legal services provided, the loss of key attorneys (such as David J. Stern, who has developed and maintains a substantial amount of DJS’ client relationships), the desire of the law firm’s clients to allocate files to other firms or among a larger number of firms, decreasing the share received by DJS, or a decrease in the number of residential mortgage foreclosure actions that customers initiate in Florida, our principal market, whether due to business considerations or governmental action impeding foreclosures. The reduction in work received from DJS or the inability or failure of DJS to pay us as a result of any one or more of these factors could materially reduce our cash flow, revenues and profits. Please refer to the risk factors below for more information about governmental or other voluntary action on the part of the clients of DJS that could negatively affect us. 3 We could lose our law firm customer if we materially breach the Services Agreement. Under the terms of the Services Agreement between us and DJS, DJS has the right to terminate the Services Agreement in the event we breach the terms of that agreement. DJS may have an ethical duty to take such action if we do not provide services of a quality necessary for DJS to properly serve its clients. In addition, under the Services Agreement, if one of DJS’ clients requires DJS not to use us to provide services for their accounts, DJS may provide those services itself or use another party to do so. In the event of the occurrence of any of these events, our revenues and earnings could be materially adversely affected. Regulation of the legal profession may constrain our operations, and numerous issues arising out of that regulation, its interpretation or evolution could impair our ability to provide professional services to customers and reduce revenues and profitability. Each state has laws, regulations and codes of professional responsibility that govern the conduct and obligations of attorneys to their clients and the courts. Adherence to those codes of professional responsibility is a requirement to retaining a license to practice law in the licensing jurisdiction. The boundaries of the “practice of law,” however, can be indistinct, vary from one state to another and are the product of complex interactions among state law, bar association standards and constitutional law as formulated by the U.S. Supreme Court. Many states define the practice of law to include the giving of advice and opinions regarding another person’s legal rights, the preparation of legal documents or the preparation of court documents for another person. Although we are not aware of any ruling or interpretation of laws, regulations or other applicable standards that would result in the operations that we perform being considered the practice of law, we cannot say with certainty that no existing law, regulation or standard will be interpreted to produce that result, or that a new law, regulation or standard leading to that result will not be adopted in the future. In addition, all states and the American Bar Association prohibit attorneys from sharing fees for legal services with non-attorneys, so that if any aspect of our business is deemed to constitute the practice of law, it would not be possible for us to continue performing those services. Our principal business activity involves providing foreclosure processing services, usually in connection with legal proceedings, such as foreclosure actions. Current laws, regulations and codes of professional responsibility governing the practice of law pose the following principal risks to our business: · State or local bar associations, state or local prosecutors or other persons may claim that some portion of the services that we provide constitutes the unauthorized practice of law. Any such challenge could have a disruptive effect on our operations, including the diversion of significant time and attention of our senior management in order to respond. We may also incur significant expenses in connection with such a challenge, including substantial fees for attorneys and other professional advisors. If a challenge to the legitimacy of all or a portion of our operations were successful, such operations may need to be modified in a manner that could adversely affect our business, revenues and profitability, and we could be subject to a range of penalties and suffer damage to our reputation. · The Services Agreement between us and DJS could be deemed to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, if a court were to determine that such agreements constitute an impermissible fee sharing arrangement between the law firm customer and us. In addition, applicable laws, regulations and codes of professional responsibility, including their interpretation and enforcement, could change in a manner that restricts our operations. Any such change in laws, policies or practices could increase our cost of doing business or adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Failure to customize the proprietary case management software system so that it can be used to serve additional law firm customers both in Florida and in new jurisdictions, could adversely affect the growth prospects of our mortgage default processing service business. We rely heavily on a proprietary case management software system, which stores, manages and reports on the large amount of data associated with each foreclosure, bankruptcy, real estate owned liquidation or eviction case file we process, to achieve a high level of efficiency, accuracy and customer service. The system was initially developed for use in the state of Florida, and it is adapted specifically to the procedural requirements of that jurisdiction. We intend to expand our business beyond Florida, and in order to do so profitably, we will need to modify our system to accommodate the specific procedural and legal requirements associated with those additional jurisdictions. While the system we use in foreclosures processed in Puerto Rico was modified, whether the system can be modified to conform to other jurisdictions at an acceptable cost is unknown. That will depend on how significant the needed changes are and whether we can develop a volume of business in those jurisdictions that will justify the cost of making them. 4 We may decide to enter into a service agreement with customers in other jurisdictions prior to modifying our software systems, based on a judgment that we can do so in a timely, effective and efficient manner to fulfill our contractual obligations. It is possible that our judgment will turn out to be incorrect, notwithstanding that it was made in good faith, in which case we could find that we are unable to provide the services that we agreed to provide or that we are unable to do so profitably. If we are unable to provide the agreed upon services in a timely and effective way, the harm to our business reputation may adversely affect our business in Florida or in other markets that we seek to enter, both reducing our revenues and profits from those other jurisdictions and making future expansion more difficult. In addition, Florida is a “judicial” foreclosure state, which means that the foreclosure process is overseen at each step by a judge in a court of law. The processing services required, and the fees generated as a result, in a judicial state are significantly greater than those in a non-judicial state, which has minimal, if any, proceedings in a court of law in processing a foreclosure. If we choose to market our services in a non-judicial state, the revenue per file will be substantially less than we are currently generating in Florida, and that decreased revenue per file may prove not to be sufficient to justify the expense of modifying our software systems to expand our business into those jurisdictions. Claims, even if not valid, that the case management software system or other proprietary software products and information systems infringe on the intellectual property rights of others could increase our expenses or inhibit our business from offering certain services. Other persons could claim that they have patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect our use of software products and other components of information systems on which we rely to operate our business, including the proprietary case management software system that we use to provide mortgage default processing services. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of third-party rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a court determines that one or more of the software products or other components of information systems used infringe on intellectual property owned by others or we agree to settle such a dispute, we may be liable for money damages. In addition, we may be required to cease using those products and components unless we obtain licenses from the owners of the intellectual property or redesign those products and components in such a way as to avoid infringement. In any event, such situations may increase our expenses or adversely affect our ability to provide services. We are subject to risks relating to litigation due to the nature of our products and service offerings. We may, from time to time, be subject to or be named as a party in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our mortgage default processing business. We could incur significant legal expenses and management’s attention may be diverted from operations in defending against and resolving lawsuits or claims. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could result in a negative perception of our business and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating results and growth prospects. The Transaction may not be treated as a reverse recapitalization, resulting in adverse consequences to our financial statements. We have accounted for the Transaction as a reverse recapitalization of the businesses operated by DJS LLC, PTA LLC and DSI LLC. However, this accounting treatment is dependent on a number of factors that we believe result in this transaction being considered a reverse recapitalization, that may be subsequently determined to have been improperly considered by management or outweighed by other factors. If our auditors or the SEC determine that the Transaction was not a reverse recapitalization, our financial results could be significantly impacted because we would have increased future amortization and depreciation charges for certain assets acquired in the Transaction with fair values in excess of their carrying values, which could reduce our profits. 5 Risks Relating to the Mortgage Foreclosure Industry State and federal regulation and limitation of lenders’ ability to pursue foreclosure actions, along with voluntary foreclosure relief programs developed by lenders, loan servicers and the Hope Now Alliance, a consortium that includes loan servicers, may have an adverse effect on the volume of our mortgage default processing services and public notice operations. The prevalence of sub-prime, Alternative A paper mortgage and other non-traditional mortgage products, rising unemployment and the increasing number of defaults and delinquencies in connection with those and other mortgages have led to the adoption of governmental regulations that incentivize lenders and loan servicers not to pursue, or restrict the ability of lenders and loan servicers to pursue, foreclosure against defaulting mortgagors. While the effects of these regulations to date have not been substantial, if new or more stringent regulations are enacted, the clients of DJS would likely be subject to these regulations, and it could adversely affect the number of mortgage default files that DJS receives from its clients and can then refer to us for processing. Similarly, these new or more stringent regulations could impose new requirements on the processing of foreclosures, which could adversely affect when foreclosure referrals are sent to us for processing. The federal government has enacted the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which contains reforms intended to reduce the volume of mortgages in foreclosure, including the development of a refinance program for homeowners with sub-prime loans. This refinance program took effect on October 1, 2008. In September 2008, the federal government also enacted the Economic Emergency Stabilization Act, which provides funding to purchase troubled assets from financial institutions. More recently, the federal administration announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, an attempt to address the continuing rise in mortgage delinquencies and mortgage defaults. Under this plan, the federal government set forth detailed requirements for the “Making Home Affordable” program, which offers qualified homeowners with a loan-to-value ratio above 80% the opportunity to apply for mortgage refinancing at lower interest rates. The “Making Home Affordable” program also provided loan modification guidelines that are expected to become standard industry practice in pursuing affordable and sustainable mortgage modifications. The loan modification program guidelines are expected to work in tandem with an expanded Hope for Homeowners program. If this legislation or any other bills being considered, including the proposed bankruptcy legislation that would allow bankruptcy judges in Chapter 13 cases to revise the terms of a mortgage on a primary residence, are successful, they will likely reduce the number of mortgages going into default and, thus, the number of mortgage default files that DJS or other customers refer to us for processing. If either of these occurs, it could have a negative impact on our earnings and growth. Furthermore, a number of lenders and loan servicers, including clients of DJS, are focusing greater attention on loss mitigation, loan modifications and similar efforts which may delay or prevent foreclosures. For example, programs have been announced to manage certain delinquent loans that banks hold in a manner that will attempt to avoid foreclosure. To the extent that lenders, loan servicers and others over whom we have no control, voluntarily, or are required to, continue these efforts, the number of files referred to DJS for mortgage default processing, and the number of foreclosure files referred to us, could decline, which would have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings. You should also refer to “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – DJS Processing Division and Combined Affiliates – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments – Regulatory Environment” for more information about regulatory and similar changes that could affect the volume of referrals we receive for our mortgage default processing services. Changes in court practices or procedures may affect the filing and service requirements for case filings or may reduce or eliminate the amount of case filings, either of which could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and growth opportunities or adversely restrict our operations. Florida and other jurisdictions are facing unprecedented levels of foreclosure activity in recent years, which has led to a substantial burden on the court systems in those states. It is possible that those jurisdictions, in order to relieve that burden and eliminate what has become a growing backlog of cases, will adopt modifications to their foreclosure proceedings to streamline them. Should they do so, it could reduce the amount of fees that we receive per file, thus leading to a reduction in our revenues and profits, even if foreclosure volumes remain constant or even increase. 6 If “judicial” foreclosure states adopted “non-judicial” procedures for filing foreclosures, mortgage foreclosure processing firms operating in “judicial” states would be materially and adversely affected. “Judicial” foreclosure states require foreclosures to follow a set of rules, compliance with which is overseen by a judge in a court of law. The level of processing fees associated with a foreclosure in a judicial state is significantly greater than would be expected in a non-judicial state. Should Florida (or another judicial state in which we choose to operate) choose to adopt a non-judicial mortgage foreclosure process in order to expedite the processing of foreclosures, it would result in a substantial reduction in the revenues derived from that jurisdiction, with an accompanying reduction in profits. Risks Related to Our Structure Our outstanding warrants could decrease our share price. If our outstanding warrants are called or exercised, the underlying ordinary shares will be eligible for future resale in the public market. “Market overhang” from the warrants may cause investors to assume that there will be additional ordinary shares outstanding that were purchased at the warrant exercise price, which will likely be below our then current share price. That possibility could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares, even prior to a call of the warrants. We have 11,166,666 warrants outstanding which were issued prior to and in connection with our initial public offering, exercisable at a price of $5.00 per share. Those warrants are now exercisable and 6,875,000 of them (the “Public Warrants”) will be callable at a price of $0.01 per warrant and upon thirty (30) days’ notice if the closing price of our shares equals or exceeds $10 for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days. The shares underlying these 6,875,000 warrants have been registered pursuant to our registration statement filed in connection with our IPO. In the event that the Public Warrants are called, all or nearly all of them are likely to be exercised. Another 2,291,666 warrants issued prior to our IPO are not subject to a call. If any of our warrants are exercised or called, a substantial number of additional ordinary shares will be eligible for resale in the public market. Those additional shares will have been purchased at a price of $5.00, and as a result, the exercise or the prospect of the exercise or call of these warrants may reduce the market price at which our ordinary shares trade. Immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, we issued 2,000,000 warrants at a price of $0.50 to our management and their affiliates (the “Private Placement Warrants”). The Private Placement Warrants were issued on terms equivalent to those of the Public Warrants, except that (i) the Private Placement Warrants are not callable; and (ii) the Private Placement Warrants contain a “cashless” or “net” exercise provision, which allows the holders of the Private Placement Warrants to exercise them by receiving a reduced amount of our shares compared to a “cash” exercise of the warrants, in exchange for not having to pay the $5.00 exercise price. The exact terms of the cashless exercise will depend on the share price of our shares. The Company filed a registration statement on Form F-1 with the SEC on February 12, 2010 to register both the Private Placement Warrants and the shares underlying the Private Placement Warrants. This registration statement is not yet effective. The prospect that those warrants may be exercised for $5.00 may reduce the market price at which our ordinary shares trade. In order to generate additional cash for payment of the note issued in connection with the Transaction, certain of the holders of the Private Placement Warrants have agreed to exercise or sell those warrants to third parties who agree to exercise them beginning on the later of six months following the closing of the transaction or the date that the warrants and the shares underlying them are covered by an effective resale registration statement and provided that our ordinary shares are trading at or above $9.00. In exchange for their agreement to do so, the holders of those warrants will receive, in the aggregate, 233,010 ordinary shares. As a result of this agreement, the time at which the Private Placement Warrants will be exercised may be accelerated, thus causing the increase in the number of our issued and outstanding shares to occur at an earlier time than might otherwise have happened. The 2,291,666 of our units purchased prior to our initial public offering (the “Insider Units”), each consisting of one ordinary share and one warrant to purchase one of our ordinary shares for $5.00, along with the Private Placement Warrants, are currently held in escrow. The Insider Units will be released from escrow on January 15, 2011 (i.e., one year after the closing of the Transaction). If the Public Warrants have not been called or exercised prior to that time, the release of these shares from escrow will increase our public “float” by approximately 33%, which may cause a decrease in our share price. 7 Exchange rights held by the holders of DAL’s membership interests could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. The members of DAL, other than the Company, do not hold a direct ownership interest in the Company. However, the 2,700,000 DAL Common Units and 1,666,667 DAL Series A Preferred Units that they hold are exchangeable into our shares commencing one year after the Transaction was consummated (i.e., January 15, 2011). In addition, they hold DAL Series B Preferred Units, which automatically convert into 3,900,000 additional DAL Common Units, which in turn are exchangeable for 3,900,000 ordinary shares of the Company, if the market value of the company’s ordinary shares exceeds set prices between $10.00 and $20.00 per share prior to January 15, 2015. The exchange of the DAL Units for our shares will increase our public “float,” which may cause a decrease in our share price. Risks to Our Shareholders If our outstanding warrants are exercised, the underlying ordinary shares will be eligible for future resale in the public market. “Market overhang” from the warrants as a result of that potential dilution could reduce the market price of the ordinary shares. Outstanding warrants and unit purchase options to purchase an aggregate of 11,441,000 ordinary shares issued in connection with our initial public offering and the private placement that took place immediately prior to the initial public offering became exercisable after the Transaction on January 15, 2010. If they are exercised, a substantial additional number of our ordinary shares will be eligible for resale in the public market, which may reduce the market price. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, shareholders will benefit from an investment in our ordinary shares only if they appreciate in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on factors the Board of Directors deems relevant, including among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on shareholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our ordinary shares. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants, we may redeem our warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after such warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $10.00 per ordinary share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the warrants and the ordinary shares underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. In order to accelerate the payment of the receiving cash owed to the Stern Contributors, we have agreed to call our warrants as soon as the conditions for doing so are met. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders: (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently holders of warrants are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. Holders who fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party, and whose warrants are redeemed for nominal value, will not have recourse to us. 8 Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Prior to the Transaction, Chardan 2008 had not had operations, and DAL had not operated as a public company. Fulfilling DAL’s obligations incident to being a public company will be expensive and time consuming. Prior to Chardan 2008’s acquisition of DAL on January 15, 2010, Chardan 2008 had not had operations, and DAL had not operated as a public company. Each of Chardan 2008 and DAL have maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. Neither Chardan 2008 nor DAL currently has an internal audit group. Although Chardan 2008 has maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to its very limited activities, it has not been required to maintain and establish these disclosure controls and procedures and internal control as will be required with respect to businesses such as DAL with substantial operations. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Company will need to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations will require significant management time, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staffs and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and increase our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs. We may also need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this Report in Item 10(E) captioned “Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation – General”) of our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the expected composition of our assets and income for the 2010 taxable year, we do not expect to be treated as a PFIC for our 2010 taxable year. However, our actual PFIC status for our 2010 taxable year or any subsequent taxable year will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to our status as a PFIC for our 2010 taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares or warrants are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. See the discussion in Item 10(E) entitled “Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation – Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” ITEM 