ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are exposed to risks in the operation of our business. Some of these risks are common to all companies doing business in the industry in which we operate and some are unique to our business. These risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating our business. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO COMPLETION OF THE MERGER The pendency of the Merger could materially, adversely affect our future business and operations or result in a loss of our employees or dealers. In connection with the pending Merger with Tyco, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions, which could negatively impact our revenues, earnings and cash flows, and the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Similarly, our current and prospective employees or dealers operating in our dealer network may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following the completion of the Merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees or dealers. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts our ability to take certain specified actions without the consent of Tyco until the Merger occurs. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. The Merger may adversely impact the tax-free status of our spin-off from BCO, which could result in material liabilities to us under the tax matters agreement with BCO. Although we believe that the Merger will not adversely impact the tax-free status of our spin-off from BCO, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may assert that the Merger would cause the spin-off to be treated as a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes to BCO. If the IRS were to be successful in any such contention, or if for any other reason we were to take actions that would cause the spin-off to be treated as a taxable transaction, under the tax matters agreement entered into between us and BCO at the time of the spin-off, we would be obligated to indemnify BCO as a result of the failure of the tax-free status of the spin-off to be preserved, which would result in material liabilities to us. If the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following: • we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay Tyco a termination fee of either $45.0 million or $87.5 million under the Merger Agreement; • we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, whether or not the Merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor, and printing fees; • under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Merger which may adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategies; and • matters relating to the Merger may require our management team to commit substantial time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us. In addition, if the Merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers, employees or dealers. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. The proposed Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or could delay or prevent the completion of the Merger. Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the expiration or termination of the required waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976. The reviewing authorities may not permit the Merger at all or may impose restrictions or conditions on the completion of the Merger. There is no assurance that we will obtain these necessary governmental approvals to complete the Merger. In addition, any delay in the completion of the Merger from the failure to obtain such approvals could diminish the anticipated benefits of the Merger or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the proposed Merger. 9 Table of Contents OTHER RISK FACTORS We are subject to contractual limitations on the use of certain BCO trademarks which have required us to develop a new brand for our business. Prior to the Spin-off, we operated as a subsidiary of BCO, and marketed our products and services using BCO’s brand name and logos. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a Brand Licensing Agreement with a subsidiary of BCO that grants us the right to use certain trademarks, in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico in connection with the provision of certain products and services. These rights will extend for a period no longer than three years (that is, until October 31, 2011), subject to certain terms and conditions, after which we will no longer have the right to use BCO’s brand name. In addition, following the expiration of a five-year non-compete agreement between us and BCO on October 31, 2013, BCO will be able to operate a separate alarm monitoring business using their brand name in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant expense in connection with building recognition of our new brand. On June 30, 2009, we announced our new brand name, Broadview Security. In doing so, we have incurred costs associated with developing our new brand and will incur substantial costs in building recognition of our new brand. There is uncertainty regarding the timing, duration and the amount of the total expenses that may be incurred in the brand building effort. These expenses are dependent, among other things, on general economic and strategic marketing decisions that will be made during the transition to the new brand, and are therefore subject to change. Our new brand may not achieve similar brand recognition as our heritage brand, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. As we continue to develop the Broadview Security brand name for potential and existing customers, there is some risk that the volume of new installations and the disconnect rate could be negatively impacted. Despite our efforts, we may not be successful in achieving an acceptable level of recognition of our new brand. If we are not successful in achieving recognition for our new brand, our competitive position may be weakened and we may lose market share. If our Spin-off from BCO were to lose its tax-free status due to actions taken by us, we would be required to indemnify BCO for certain liabilities under our Tax Matters Agreement with BCO. BCO received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the Spin-off qualified for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. The ruling was based upon representations by BCO that necessary conditions had been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling. If the IRS were to determine that the Spin-off does not qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, then a U.S. holder that received our shares in the Spin-off would be treated as having received a distribution to the extent of the fair market value of the shares received on the Spin-off date. That distribution would be treated as taxable dividend income to the extent of such holder’s ratable share of the current and accumulated earnings and profits of BCO, if any. Any amount that exceeds such share of earnings and profits of BCO would be treated first as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in its shares of common stock of BCO (thus reducing such adjusted tax basis) with any remaining amounts being treated as capital gains. Generally, taxes resulting from the Spin-off failing to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. Federal income tax purposes would be imposed on BCO and BCO’s shareholders. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, however, we would be required to indemnify BCO and its affiliates against all tax-related liabilities caused by such failure to the extent those liabilities arose as a result of an action taken by us or our affiliates or otherwise resulted from any breach of any representation, covenant or obligation of us or our affiliates under the Tax Matters Agreement or any other agreement entered into by us in connection with the Spin-off. We are contingently responsible for certain of BCO’s contingent and other corporate liabilities. As a former subsidiary of BCO, we are jointly and severally liable with BCO, and with certain other current and former subsidiaries of BCO, for two kinds of health benefits for employees of BCO former coal operations. First, we and BCO are jointly and severally liable for the ongoing provision of postretirement health benefits. To fund the considerable costs of these benefits, BCO established a Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Associate trust (“VEBA”). It is possible that the VEBA may be underfunded, in which case we and BCO could be required to provide additional funding. Second, we are jointly and severally liable to pay certain postretirement health premiums through September 2010. Although we continue to be jointly and severally liable with BCO for these liabilities and expenses, BCO has agreed to indemnify us for any and all costs relating to these liabilities and expenses. However, it is possible that BCO will be unwilling or unable to make these payments in which case we could be required to do so. 10 Table of Contents As a former subsidiary of BCO, and with certain other current and former subsidiaries of BCO, we have a joint and several liability with BCO to the IRS for the consolidated federal income taxes of the BCO group relating to the taxable periods ending on or prior to the Spin-off. Although we continue to be jointly and severally liable with BCO for this liability under the Tax Matters Agreement, BCO has agreed to indemnify us for amounts relating to this liability to the extent not attributable to our liabilities. However, it is possible that BCO will be unwilling or unable to make these payments in which case we could be required to do so. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we are required to indemnify BCO and its affiliates for tax liabilities attributable to us and resulting from audit adjustments for taxable periods during which we were a member of the BCO consolidated group. We are susceptible to downturns in the housing market and consumer discretionary income, which may inhibit our ability to sustain subscriber base growth rates. Demand for alarm monitoring services is affected by the turnover in the housing market. Downturns in the rate of the sale of new and existing homes, which we believe drives a substantial portion of our new customer volume in any given year, would reduce opportunities to make sales of new security systems and services and reduce opportunities to take over existing security systems. With the extended slowdown in housing sales and the deterioration in the overall consumer environment, our new installation growth rate has progressively slowed during the last three years. We sustained a decline in new customer installations in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 2007. In addition, because of personal economic circumstances, current security alarm customers may decide to disconnect our services in an effort to reduce their monthly spending and may default on their remaining contractual obligations to us. Our long-term revenue growth rate depends on installations exceeding disconnects. If the housing market downturn is prolonged, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected. If the general economic downturn is prolonged, this could lead to an increase in customer disconnects and defaults, and may also adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. Our financial results may be negatively impacted by recent financial events. Recent financial events have resulted in the consolidation, failure or near failure of a number of institutions in the banking, insurance and investment banking industries and have substantially reduced the ability of companies to obtain financing. These events have also led to a substantial reduction in stock market valuations and job losses, and could have a number of different effects on our business, including: • a reduction in consumer spending, which could result in increased customer disconnects and/or a reduction in new customer additions; • a negative impact on the ability of our existing customers to timely pay their obligations to us, thus reducing our cash flow; • an increased likelihood that one or more of our banking institutions may be unable or unwilling to honor its commitments under our revolving credit facility; and • restricted access to capital markets that may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisitions. Other events or conditions may arise directly or indirectly from financial events that could negatively impact our business. We rely on a significant number of our subscribers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time. We incur significant upfront cash costs for each new subscriber. It requires a substantial amount of time for us to receive cash payments (net of our recurring cash costs) from a particular subscriber that are sufficient to offset this upfront cost, with that period currently averaging approximately four years. Accordingly, our long-term profitability is dependent on our subscribers remaining with us as customers for long periods of time. This requires that we minimize our rate of subscriber disconnects, or attrition. Factors that can increase disconnects include customers who relocate and do not reconnect, problems with our service quality, an economic slowdown and the affordability of our service. If we fail to keep our subscribers for a sufficiently long period of time, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Shifts in our customers’ choice of telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact our business and require significant capital expenditures. Certain elements of our operating model have historically relied on our customers’ continued selection and use of traditional land-line telecommunications to transmit alarm signals to our monitoring centers. There is a growing trend for customers to switch to the exclusive use of cell-phone, satellite, or internet communication technology in their homes and businesses, and we anticipate telecommunication providers to permanently switch from land-line to broadband communications in the future. The use of communications other than land-line would require customers to upgrade to alternative, and often more expensive, technologies to transmit alarm signals, which generally result in increased recurring revenues for us. This, however, could increase our customer attrition rates, slow down our new subscriber rates, or reduce our ability to attract a sufficient volume of new customers. In the future, we may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If we are unable to adapt timely to changing technologies, market conditions, or customer preferences, it could adversely affect our business. 11 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry. The monitored security alarm industry is subject to significant competition and pricing pressures. We experience competitive pricing pressures on both installation fees and monitoring rates. Several significant competitors offer installation fees that match or are lower than our prices. Other competitors charge significantly more for installation but, in many cases, less for monitoring. Competitive pressure on monitoring and service fees is significant. We believe that the monitoring and service fees we offer are generally competitive with rates offered by other major security companies. Continued pricing pressure could adversely impact our customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We also face potential competition from improvements in self-monitoring systems, which enable customers to monitor their home environment without third-party involvement. Advances in self-monitoring systems could progress to the point where we could be at a competitive disadvantage. Similarly, it is possible that one or more of our competitors could develop a significant technical advantage over us that allows them to provide additional service or better quality service or to lower their price, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Either development could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. We may pursue additional customer acquisition channels and strategic alliances, which may cause operating margins to suffer. We may expand our presence in the commercial alarm installation and monitoring market. We may also continue to evaluate other business opportunities, including expanding our services, adding customer acquisition channels, and forming new alliances with companies to market our security systems and services. This could result in our cost of investment in new subscribers growing at a faster rate than installations and related recurring revenue. Additionally, any new alliances or customer acquisition channels could have higher cost structures than our current arrangements, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital. In the event that working capital requirements exceeded operating cash flow, we might be required to draw on our credit facility or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available. We rely on third party providers for the components of our security systems and any failure or interruption in products or services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business. The components for the security systems that we install are manufactured by third parties. We are therefore susceptible to interruptions in supply and to the receipt of components that do not meet our high standards. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business. We exercise little control over our suppliers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the products and services they provide. Any interruption in supply could cause delays in installations and repairs and the loss of current and potential customers. Also, if a previously installed component were found to be defective, we might not be able to recover the costs associated with its repair or replacement, and the diversion of technical personnel to address such an issue could affect subscriber, revenue, and profit growth. An interruption to our monitoring facilities from a disaster could adversely affect our business. A disruption to our monitoring facilities could disrupt our ability to provide alarm monitoring services and serve our customers which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, disease, transportation interruption, or terrorism. However, these risks are mitigated through the existence of our two fully redundant monitoring facilities. In the event of an emergency at one of our two monitoring facilities, all monitoring operations can be quickly transferred to the other facility. Additionally, many non-operator employees at each facility are cross-trained as monitoring operators, should there be a short-term or emergency need for additional monitoring operators. Both facilities hold Underwriters’ Laboratories (“UL”) listings as protective signaling services stations and maintain certain standards of building integrity and power backup, among other safeguards. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. If a subscriber believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or security system failure, he or she may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment could be substantial. Substantially all of our customer contracts contain provisions limiting our liability; however, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that these limitations may be deemed not applicable. We carry insurance of various types, including general liability and professional liability insurance in amounts we consider adequate and customary for our industry. Some of our insurance policies, and the laws of some states, may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages, or liability arising from gross negligence. If we incur increased losses related to employee acts or omissions, or system failure, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, or if we are unable to receive reimbursements from insurance carriers, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could be assessed penalties for false alarms. Some local governments impose assessments, fines, penalties and limitations on either subscribers or the alarm companies for false alarms. A few municipalities have adopted ordinances under which both permit and alarm dispatch fees are charged directly to the alarm companies. Our alarm service contracts generally allow us to pass these charges on to customers. If more local governments were to impose assessments, fines or penalties, our customers might find these additional charges prohibitive and the growth of our subscriber base could be adversely affected. Further, to the extent we are unable to pass assessments, fines and penalties on to our customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. Police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies. Police departments in a limited number of U.S. cities do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. We have offered affected customers the option of receiving response from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. If more police departments were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain subscribers could be negatively impacted and our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our business operates in a regulated industry. Our operations and employees are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection, licensing and other laws and regulations. Most states in which we operate have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. Our business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline telephone companies are currently regulated by both the federal and state governments. Our Canadian operation is subject to the laws of Canada, British Columbia and Alberta. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or we failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (which Sections were adopted as part of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” “prospects,” “outlook,” and similar words or expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may,” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any anticipated results, performance or achievements. Except as required by law, we disclaim any intention, and undertake no obligation, to revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, a future event, or otherwise. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to risks related to the Merger, risks inherent in the Spin-off from our former parent corporation, the demand for our products and services, the ability to identify and execute further cost and operational improvements and efficiencies in our core business, the actions of competitors, our ability to successfully build and market a new brand, our ability to identify strategic opportunities and integrate them successfully, our ability to maintain subscriber growth, the number of household moves, the level of home sales or new home construction, potential instability in housing credit markets, our ability to cost-effectively develop or incorporate new systems or technology in a timely manner, our ability to balance the cost of acquiring customers with the profit from serving existing customers, our ability to keep disconnect rates relatively low, the availability and cost of capital, and general business conditions. 13 Table of Contents Certain of these factors and other factors, risk and uncertainties are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other unknown or unpredictable factors may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by the forward looking statements. Most of these factors are difficult to anticipate and may be beyond our control. You should consider the areas of risk described above, and also consider those set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in connection with considering any forward looking statements that may be made by us in this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 