Risk Factors” section beginning on page 14. Industry; Competition The security alarm industry is highly competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with several major firms and with numerous smaller providers. Competitors for alarm subscribers with national scope include the following: • ADT Security Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Tyco International, Ltd (“ADT”); • Protection One, Inc.; and • Stanley Security Solutions, a subsidiary of The Stanley Works. Certain alarm service companies have adopted, in whole or in part, a strategy similar to ours that entails the purchase of alarm monitoring accounts through an authorized dealer program. A competitor for dealers with national scope includes ADT. Competition in the security alarm industry is based primarily on reputation for quality of service, market visibility, services offered, price and the ability to identify prospective dealers and subscriber accounts. We believe that we compete effectively with other national, regional and local alarm monitoring companies due to our reputation for reliable monitoring, customer and technical services, the high quality services and benefits we offer to dealers in our authorized dealer program and our low cost structure. However, we compete with several companies that have account acquisition and loan programs for independent dealers, and one of those competitors is significantly larger than we are and has more capital. Seasonality Monitronics’ operations are subject to a certain level of seasonality in our operations. Since more household moves take place during the second and third calendar quarters of each year, Monitronics’ disconnect rate and expenses related to retaining customers are typically higher in those calendar quarters than in the first and fourth 12 Table of Contents quarters. There is also a slight seasonal effect resulting in higher new customer volume, and related cash expenditures incurred in investment in new subscribers, in the second and third quarters. Regulatory Matters Monitronics’ operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, Monitronics is required to obtain licenses or permits, to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of its business. The security industry is also subject to requirements imposed by various insurance, approval, listing and standards organizations. Depending upon the type of subscriber served, the type of security service provided and the requirements of the applicable local governmental jurisdiction, adherence to the requirements and standards of such organizations is mandatory in some instances and voluntary in others. Although local governments routinely respond to panic and smoke/fire alarms, there are an increasing number of local governmental authorities that have adopted or are considering various measures aimed at reducing the number of false burglar alarms. Such measures include: • subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for false alarms; • imposing fines on alarm subscribers for false alarms; • imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to false alarms at a particular location; • requiring additional verification of intrusion alarms by calling two different phone numbers prior to dispatch (Enhanced Call Verification); and • requiring visual verification of an actual emergency at the premise before the police will respond to an alarm signal (Verified Response). Enhanced Call Verification has been implemented as standard policy by Monitronics. See “Operations — Monitoring Services.” Monitronics’ alarm monitoring business utilizes telephone lines, internet connections, cellular networks and radio frequencies to transmit alarm signals. The cost of telephone lines, and the type of equipment which may be used in telephone line transmission, are currently regulated by both federal and state governments. The operation and utilization of cellular and radio frequencies are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission and state public utility commissions. Employees At December 31, 2010, Ascent Media, together with its subsidiaries, has approximately 1,330 full-time employees and an additional 100 employees that are employed on a part-time or freelance basis. Approximately 1,060 of the employees are employed in the United States, with the remaining amount employed outside the United States, principally in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Singapore. (d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas For financial information related to our geographic areas in which we do business, see note 19 to our consolidated financial statements found in Part II of this Annual Report. (e) Available Information All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including our Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and Form 8-Ks, as well as amendments to such filings are available on our Internet website free of charge generally within 24 hours after we file such material with the SEC. Our website address is www.ascentmediacorporation.com. Our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, compensation committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, and audit committee charter are available on our website. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we will provide a copy of any of these documents, free of charge, to any shareholder who calls or submits a request in writing to Investor Relations, Ascent Media Corporation,12300 Liberty Boulevard, Englewood, Colorado 80112. Telephone No. (720) 875-6672. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report are not the only ones that relate to our businesses or our common stock. The risks described below are considered to be the most material. However, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our businesses. If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Factors Relating to Our Corporate Strategy We have substantially changed the businesses in which our subsidiaries operate. Accordingly, it may be difficult to evaluate our performance based on our operating history. The financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include the financial position and results of operations of the Content Distribution business unit formerly operated by AMG. We completed the sale of the Content Distribution business unit on February 28, 2011, and such business unit will be reflected as discontinued operations in future filings. We acquired our current principal operating subsidiary Monitronics on December 17, 2010, so the results of operations of Monitronics are only included in our consolidated operating statement for the period December 17, 2010 through December 31, 2010, inclusive. Our Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed December 28, 2010, includes • the audited consolidated financial statements of Monitronics International, Inc., for the years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008; • the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Monitronics International, Inc., including the balance sheet as of September 30, 2010 and the statements of operations, shareholders net capital (deficiency) and cash flows for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009; • the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet of Ascent Media Corporation as of September 30, 2010, giving effect to the acquisition of Monitronics and the dispositions of the Creative/Media and Content Distributions businesses, on a pro forma basis, as if such transactions had occurred on that date; and • the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations of Ascent Media Corporation for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2009, giving effect to the acquisition of Monitronics and the dispositions of the Creative/Media and Content Distributions businesses, on a pro forma basis, as if such transactions had occurred on January 1, 2009. However, the historical financial information included in such Current Report reflects the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of Monitronics with respect to time periods during which it was a stand-alone entity, rather than part of a public company, and may not necessarily reflect what such metrics would have been if Monitronics had been a subsidiary of Ascent Media Corporation during the periods presented. Moreover, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements included in such report do not purport to represent, and are not necessarily indicative of, what our financial position or results of operations would have been had such transactions occurred on the dates indicated. Past results may not be indicative of future performance. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful. One focus of our corporate strategy is to seek opportunities to grow free cash flow through strategic acquisitions, which may include leveraged acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate that strategy, and if we are not able to invest our capital in acquisitions that are accretive to free cash 14 Table of Contents flow it could negatively impact the growth of our business. Our ability to consummate such acquisitions may be negatively impacted by various factors, including among other things: • failure to identify attractive acquisition candidates on acceptable terms; • competition from other bidders; • inability to raise any required financing; and • antitrust or other regulatory restrictions, including any requirements that may be imposed by government agencies as a condition to any required regulatory approval. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business strategy includes the future acquisition of businesses that we believe are strategically attractive and that we expect will be accretive to consolidated free cash flow. If we undertake any acquisition, the process of operating such acquired business on a stand-alone basis (or, if necessary, of integrating any acquired business with Monitronics) may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Future acquisitions could reduce our current stockholders’ ownership percentage, cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. We may incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. In addition, while we intend to implement appropriate controls and procedures as we integrate any acquired companies, we may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies’ disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting within the time periods required by United States federal securities laws and regulations. This strategy entails a high degree of risk. We are a holding company and derive substantially all of our revenue and cash flow from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, and their compliance with covenants in their respective credit facilities. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. An inability to access capital markets at attractive rates could materially increase our expenses. Although we currently have sufficient cash and investments available to meet our currently anticipated capital requirements, we may in the future require access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for investments and expenditures. In any such event there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or on any terms. If our ability to access required capital were to become significantly constrained, we could incur material borrowing costs, our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. Disruptions in worldwide credit markets may increase the risk of default by the issuers of instruments in which we invest cash and other financial institutions. The failure of any banking institution in which we deposit funds or the failure of banking institutions to operate in the ordinary course could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. Recent conditions in global credit and other financial markets resulted in significant volatility and disruptions in the availability of credit and in some cases pressured the solvency or liquidity of financial institutions. Although we seek to manage the credit risks associated with our cash and investments, we are exposed to a risk that financial institutions may fail or that our counterparties may default on their obligations to us. 15 Table of Contents Factors Relating to our Common Stock We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our subsidiaries incurred losses in each of our last five fiscal years, and Monitronics incurred losses in two of its last three full fiscal years. In future periods, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent quarterly or annual basis. Failure to maintain profitability in future periods may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. We cannot predict the prices at which either series of our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; and • domestic and foreign economic conditions. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, and a Series C that, except in such limited circumstances as may be required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest or exercise of voting rights; • limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; • prohibiting shareholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring shareholder action to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • requiring shareholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation; • requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B common stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B common stock would be diluted, for example by issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and • the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. 16 Table of Contents In addition, John C. Malone, a member of our board of directors and our largest shareholder in terms of voting power, beneficially owns shares of our common stock that represent 30% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding common stock. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan in order to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan is designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of our company, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of our company. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors or officers has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our shareholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common shareholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of shareholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law referred to above, you may not be able to challenge these decisions if a majority of our board of directors is disinterested, independent and adequately informed with respect to their decisions and acts in good faith, and in the honest belief that it is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders. Our Series B common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which is often characterized by volatility and illiquidity. The OTC Bulletin Board tends to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations, and market conditions. The potential for illiquidity and volatility with respect to our Series B common stock may also be adversely affected by (i) the relatively small number of shares of our Series B common stock held by persons other than our officers, directors and persons who hold in excess of 10% of the Series B common stock outstanding, (ii) the relatively small number of such unaffiliated shareholders, and (iii) the low trading volume of such shares on the OTC Bulletin Board. Other Factors Relating to Ascent Media Corporation We may have substantial indemnification obligations under certain inter-company agreements we entered into in connection with the spin-off of Ascent Media from DHC. Pursuant to our tax sharing agreement with DHC, we have agreed to be responsible for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). We have also agreed to be responsible for and indemnify DHC with respect to (i) certain taxes attributable to DHC or any of its subsidiaries (other than Discovery Communications, LLC) and (ii) all taxes arising as a result of the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). Our indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Pursuant to the reorganization agreement we entered into with DHC in connection with the spin-off, we assumed certain indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all non-tax liabilities that may exist relating to the business of AMG, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as certain obligations of DHC. Any indemnification payments under the tax sharing agreement or the reorganization agreement could be substantial. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the United States securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent auditors are required to issue an attestation regarding our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex, subject to change, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal control, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. Timely compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may be made more difficult by the complexities inherent in acquiring and integrating Monitronics and disposing of the operating businesses of AMG. Factors relating to Monitronics Monitronics has a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operations. Monitronics has and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2010, the principal balance of our total indebtedness was approximately $944 million, of which $106 million was outstanding under Monitronics’ senior secured credit facility and $838 million was outstanding under Monitronics’ existing securitization facility. Ascent Media has guaranteed only $30 million of the term loan included in the senior secured credit facility. Monitronics level of indebtedness could limit its ability to operate its business and impair its competitive position. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for it to satisfy its debt obligations; • increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit its ability to fund future subscriber account purchases, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • require a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations for debt payments; • limit its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; • place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and • limit its ability to borrow additional funds. Despite its current levels of indebtedness, Monitronics still may be able to incur substantially more debt. The terms of the agreements relating to its existing indebtedness permit it to incur additional indebtedness, subject to compliance with certain financial and other covenants. At December 31, 2010, the credit facility included a $115 million revolving credit facility, of which approximately $69 million was undrawn and available for future borrowing subject to the satisfaction of applicable covenants. If its current debt levels are increased as a result of new borrowings and/or refinancings, the related risks it now faces could intensify. Monitronics’ credit facility and securitization indebtedness impose many restrictions on it. The agreements governing Monitronics’ indebtedness restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make distributions; 18 Table of Contents • issue common and preferred stock of any future subsidiaries; • make certain investments; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer and sell assets. In addition, Monitronics must comply with certain financial covenants under the credit facility and the securitization indebtedness, including those that relate to capital expenditure limits, maximum total debt to EBITDA, maximum total senior liabilities to EBITDA, senior debt interest coverage fixed charge coverage, attrition rate maximums and average recurring monthly revenue minimums. If Monitronics cannot comply with such financial covenants, it may not be able to borrow under the revolving credit facility. In addition, failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the credit facility or the existing securitization indebtedness could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of indebtedness. The terms of Monitronics’ securitization facility limit its access to the cash generated by a substantial portion of its alarm monitoring contracts. The long-term debt of Monitronics at December 31, 2010, includes $838 million in principal in secured notes under a securitization facility. These notes were issued by Monitronics Funding LP, a subsidiary of Monitronics, which we refer to as “Funding”. Pursuant to the terms of the securitization facility, alarm monitoring contracts for approximately 622,000 of Monitronics subscriber accounts are owned by Funding, representing approximately 93% of the total number of subscriber accounts of Monitronics and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010. Such alarm monitoring agreements, and the monthly recurring revenue and other proceeds thereof, are pledged as collateral to secure the obligations of Funding under the securitization facility, and the cash generated by such accounts is accordingly restricted. In that connection, at December 31, 2010, Funding held approximately $51 million in restricted cash as a reserve for interest payments and other obligations of Monitronics under the facility. Under the terms of the securitization, Funding currently pays Monitronics Security LP (another subsidiary of Monitronics, which we refer to as “Security”) for monitoring and servicing the subscriber accounts owned by Funding, at an effective rate of $12.00 per active subscriber account per month. As such servicing fees currently exceed the aggregate out-of-pocket cost to Security of monitoring and servicing such subscriber accounts, the amount of such excess is available to Monitronics for other corporate purposes, including the purchase of additional subscriber accounts. However, under the terms of the securitization facility, effective July 2012, the amount of the monthly servicing fees payable by Funding to Security will decrease from an effective rate of $12.00 per active subscriber account per month to $7.50 per active subscriber account per month. This decrease will substantially reduce or eliminate the excess cash available to Security for distribution to Monitronics. If Monitronics does not repay or refinance the securitization facility by July 15, 2012, the decrease in servicing fees could have a substantially adverse affect on its liquidity and reduce the capital resources available to Monitronics for purchasing alarm monitoring accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics. There can be no assurances that such a refinancing or amendment will be available to Monitronics on terms acceptable to it, or on any terms. If we do not refinance or repay the existing Monitronics securitization facility by July 2012, our borrowing costs under that facility will increase substantially. If Monitronics does not repay or refinance the securitization facility by July 2012, contingent additional interest will begin to accrue at the rate of 5% per annum (including 0.5% of fees) on the two variable funding notes (or “VFNs”) under the Monitronics securitization facility, which have an aggregate principal balance of $288,000,000. The effective interest rate payable by the Company under $550 million notional amount of swaps relating to the term notes under the securitization facility would also increase by 5% per annum (including 0.5% of fees) beginning July 2012, if such swaps are then outstanding. Although such additional interest will not be payable in cash until all the securitization debt has been paid off, the increased leverage resulting 19 Table of Contents from the accrual of such additional interest could reduce the amount available for borrowing by Monitronics under its new credit facility and may indirectly reduce Monitronics’ ability to acquire new subscriber accounts. We may be unable to obtain additional funds to grow Monitronics’ business. Monitronics intends to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of subscriber accounts through its authorized dealer program. To continue its growth strategy, Monitronics will be required to make additional draw downs under its credit facility or seek additional financing through new loans or from the possible sale of additional securities in the future, or a refinancing of its existing securitization facility, which may lead to higher leverage. Monitronics could also use its operating cash to fund its growth. An inability to obtain funding through external financing is likely to adversely affect Monitronics’ ability to continue or accelerate its subscriber account acquisition activities. Monitronics cannot be assured that it will be able to obtain external funding. Even if it obtains external financing, there is no assurance that it will be able to do so on attractive terms. Obtaining financing on terms less favorable than what is in place today may have an adverse affect on cash flows and operations. Monitronics relies on our authorized dealers to generate subscriber growth. Monitronics experiences loss of dealers from its dealer program due to various factors, such as dealers becoming inactive or discontinuing their electronic security business, non-renewal of dealer contracts and competition from other alarm monitoring companies. If Monitronics experiences a significant loss of dealers from its dealer program or if Monitronics is unable to replace or recruit dealers in accordance with its business plans, its future operating results may be adversely affected. Monitronics may be unable to manage its growth effectively. A principal element of its business strategy is to grow through the acquisition of subscriber accounts purchased through its authorized dealer program. This expansion has placed and will continue to place substantial demands on its management and operational resources, including its information systems. Monitronics’ future operating results will depend in large part on its ability to grow and manage this growth effectively. Monitronics faces risks in acquiring and integrating subscriber accounts. Acquisitions of subscriber accounts involve a number of risks, including the possibility of unanticipated problems not discovered prior to the acquisition and the risk that the purchase may not be profitable due to account attrition, higher than expected servicing costs or lower than expected revenues from the acquired accounts. The purchase price Monitronics pays for a subscriber account is affected by the monthly recurring revenue generated by that account, as well as several other factors, including the level of competition, its prior experience with accounts purchased from the dealer, the geographic location of the account, the number of accounts purchased, the subscriber’s credit score and the type of security equipment used by the subscriber. In purchasing accounts, Monitronics relies on management’s knowledge of the industry, due diligence procedures and representations and warranties of the dealers. Monitronics cannot assure you that in all instances the representations and warranties made by the dealers are true and complete or, if the representations and warranties are inaccurate, that Monitronics due diligence procedures will be able to detect the problem or that Monitronics will be able to recover damages from the dealers in an amount sufficient to fully compensate us for any resulting losses. Monitronics expects that future account acquisitions will present the same risks to it as our prior account acquisitions. The high level of competition in Monitronics’ industry could adversely affect its business. The security alarm monitoring industry is highly competitive and highly fragmented. Monitronics faces competition from other alarm monitoring companies, including companies that have more capital than it has and that may offer higher prices and more favorable terms to dealers for subscriber accounts purchased, or charge lower prices for monitoring services provided. This competition could reduce the acquisition opportunities available to Monitronics, thus slowing its rate of growth, or require it to increase the price it pays for such account acquisitions, thus reducing its return on investment and negatively impacting its revenues and results of operations. Monitronics 20 Table of Contents cannot assure that it will be able to purchase subscriber accounts on favorable terms in the future. These uncertainties and other measures could have a materially adverse effect on Monitronics and cause its revenues to decrease. Monitronics also faces potential competition from improvements in self-monitoring systems, which enable subscribers to monitor their home environment without third-party involvement. Advances in self-monitoring systems could progress to the point where Monitronics could be at a competitive disadvantage. Similarly, it is possible that one or more of its competitors could develop a significant technical advantage over it that allows them to provide additional service or better quality service or to lower their price, which could put Monitronics at a competitive disadvantage. Either development could adversely affect its growth and results of operations. Monitronics relies on a significant number of its subscribers remaining with it as subscribers for long periods of time. Monitronics incurs significant upfront cash costs for each new subscriber. It requires a substantial amount of time for it to receive cash payments (net of its variable cash operating costs) from a particular subscriber that are sufficient to offset this upfront cost, which often exceeds the initial term of the subscriber agreement. Accordingly, Monitronics’ long-term profitability is dependent on its subscribers remaining with it as subscribers for as long as possible. This requires that Monitronics minimize its rate of subscriber disconnects, or attrition. Factors that can increase disconnects include subscribers who relocate and do not reconnect, problems with service quality, competition from other alarm monitoring companies, adverse economic conditions and the affordability of its service. If it fails to keep its subscribers for a sufficiently long period of time, Monitronics’ financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Monitronics relies on technology that may become obsolete, which could require significant expenditures. Monitronics’ monitoring services depend upon the technology (both hardware and software) of security alarm systems located at its subscribers’ premises. Monitronics may be required to implement new technology either to attract and retain subscribers or in response to changes in land-line or cellular technology or other factors, which could require significant expenditures. Monitronics may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If it is unable to adapt in response to changing technologies, market conditions or customer requirements in a timely manner, such inability could adversely affect its business. Shifts in customer selection of telecommunications services could increase attrition rates and could adversely impact Monitronics’ earnings and cash flow. Monitronics’ operating model relies to some degree on its subscribers’ continued use of traditional, land-line telecommunications services, which Monitronics uses to communicate with its monitoring operations. Although it offers alarm systems that can communicate signals to its central stations using various wireless and/or Internet-based communication technologies, such solutions are presently more expensive than alarm communicators based on the traditional Public Switched Telephone Network or PSTN. In order to continue to service existing subscribers who cancel their land-line telecommunications services and to service new customers who do not subscribe to PSTN services, subscribers may be required to upgrade to more expensive technologies. Higher costs may reduce the market for new customers of alarm monitoring services, and the trend away from traditional land lines to alternatives which may mean more existing subscribers will cancel service with Monitronics. Continued shifts in customer preferences regarding telecommunications services could continue to have an adverse impact on its earnings, cash flow and subscriber attrition rates. Monitronics depends on its relationships with alarm system manufacturers and suppliers. If it is not able to maintain or renew these strategic alliances, or enter into new alliances, it may be unable to fully implement its growth strategy, which could negatively impact its revenues. Monitronics currently has agreements with certain alarm system manufacturers and suppliers of hardware to offer purchase discounts to its dealers. These relationships: • provide important introductions to prospective dealers, which helps it in the dealer recruiting process; 21 Table of Contents • provide an additional source of prospective subscriber accounts; and • enhance its existing dealer relationships. Monitronics may not be able to maintain or renew its existing strategic alliances on terms and conditions favorable to it or enter into alliances with additional manufacturers and suppliers. If it is unable to maintain or renew its existing strategic alliances or enter into new alliances, it may not be able to fully implement its growth strategy. “False alarm” ordinances could adversely affect Monitronics’ operations. Significant concern has arisen in certain municipalities about the high incidence of false alarms. In some localities, this concern has resulted in local ordinances or policies that restrict police response to third-party monitored burglar alarms. In addition, an increasing number of local governmental authorities have considered or adopted various measures aimed at reducing the number of false alarms, including: • subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms; • imposing fines on alarm subscribers for false alarms; • imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to false alarms at a particular location; and • requiring further verification of an alarm signal, such as visual verification or verification to two different phone numbers, before the police will respond. Enactment of these measures could adversely affect Monitronics’ future business, operations and financial results. For example, 20 cities or metropolitan areas have implemented verified response ordinances for residential and commercial burglar alarms. A verified response policy means that police officers generally do not respond to an alarm until someone else (e.g., the resident, a neighbor or a security guard) first verifies that it is valid. Some alarm monitoring companies operating in these areas hire security guards or use third-party guard firms to verify an alarm. If Monitronics needs to hire security guards or use third-party guard firms, it could have a material adverse effect on its business through either increased costs to Monitronics or increased costs to its customer which may limit its ability to attract new customers. Although Monitronics has less than 17,000 subscribers in these areas, a more widespread adoption of such a policy or similar policies in other cities or municipalities could adversely affect its business. In addition, such limitations, or the perception that police departments will not respond to third-party monitored burglar alarms, may reduce customer satisfaction with traditional monitored alarm systems, which may result in increased attrition rates or decreased customer demand. Future government regulations could adversely affect Monitronics’ operations. Monitronics operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities. In certain jurisdictions, Monitronics is required to obtain licenses or permits, to comply with standards governing monitoring station employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of these licenses in jurisdictions where it has significant business, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of these licenses, could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics. If these laws, regulations and/or licensing requirements change, it could require Monitronics to modify its operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations. There can be no assurance that new laws or regulations that increase its costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations will not be implemented in the future. Monitronics’ business operates in a regulated industry. Monitronics operations and employees are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection, licensing and other laws and regulations. Most states in which Monitronics operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. Its business relies heavily upon wireline and cellular telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline and cellular telephone companies are currently regulated by both the federal and state governments. Monitronics’ Canadian operation is subject to comparable regulation. Changes in laws or regulations could require it to change the way it operates, which could increase costs or 22 Table of Contents otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of its operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or Monitronics failed to comply, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks of liability from Monitronics operations are significant. The nature of the services Monitronics provides potentially exposes it to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failure than may be inherent in other businesses. Substantially all of its alarm monitoring contracts contain provisions limiting its liability to subscribers and dealers in an attempt to reduce this risk. However, in the event of litigation with respect to these matters, Monitronics cannot assure that these limitations will be enforced, and the costs of such litigation or the related settlements could have a material adverse effect on it. In addition, there can be no assurance that Monitronics is adequately insured for these risks. Certain of its insurance policies and the laws of some states may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages or liability arising from gross negligence. An interruption to its monitoring facilities from a disaster could adversely affect Monitronics’ business. A disruption to its monitoring facilities could affect its ability to provide alarm monitoring services and serve its subscribers which could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business. Any such disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, disease, transportation interruption, or terrorism. These risks are mitigated by having a back-up monitoring facility. In the event of an emergency at its main monitoring facility, all monitoring operations can be quickly transferred to the back-up facility. While we have taken reasonable precautions to mitigate the risk, there is no assurance that the back-up facility won’t be impacted by the same catastrophic event or natural disaster. The main monitoring facility holds Underwriters’ Laboratories (“UL”) listings as protective signaling services stations and maintains certain standards of building integrity, redundant computer and communications facilities and backup power, among other safeguards. Monitronics is dependent upon its experienced senior management, who would be difficult to replace. The success of the Monitronics business is largely dependent upon the active participation of its executive officers, who have extensive experience in the industry. The loss of service of one or more of such officers or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel for any reason may have an adverse effect on its business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 