Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Changes in the demand for child care and other dependent care services, which may be negatively affected by economic conditions, may affect our operating results. Our business strategy depends on employers recognizing the value in providing employees with child care and other dependent care services as an employee benefit. The number of employers that view such services as cost-effective or beneficial to their work forces may not continue to grow or may diminish. In addition, demographic trends, including the number of dual-income families in the work force, may not continue to lead to increased demand for our services. Such changes could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Even among employers that recognize the value of our services, demand may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. For example, during the recent recession, we believe sustained uncertainty in U.S. and global economic conditions and persistently high unemployment domestically resulted in reduced enrollment levels at our mature P&L centers, and enrollment remains below pre-recession levels, and in certain locations has not begun to recover. Should the economy experience additional or prolonged weakness, employer clients may reduce or eliminate their sponsorship of work and family services, and prospective clients may not commit resources to such services. In addition, a reduction in the size of an employer’s workforce could negatively impact the demand for our services and result in reduced enrollment or failure of our employer clients to renew their contracts. A deterioration of general economic conditions may adversely impact the need for our services because out-of-work parents may diminish or discontinue the use of child care services, or be unwilling to pay tuition for high-quality services. Additionally, we may not be able to increase tuition at a rate consistent with increases in our operating costs. If demand for our services were to decrease, it could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business depends largely on our ability to hire and retain qualified teachers. State laws require our teachers and other staff members to meet certain educational and other minimum requirements, and we often require that teachers and staff at our centers have additional qualifications. We are also required by state laws to maintain certain prescribed minimum adult-to-child ratios. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified teachers at a center, we could be required to reduce enrollment or be prevented from accepting additional enrollment in order to comply with such mandated ratios. In certain markets, we may experience difficulty in attracting, hiring and retaining qualified teachers, which may require us to offer increased salaries and enhanced benefits in these more competitive markets. This could result in increased costs at centers located in these markets. Difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified personnel may also affect our ability to meet growth objectives in certain geographies and to take advantage of additional enrollment opportunities at our child care and early education centers in these markets. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had total indebtedness of $782.1 million, excluding approximately $1.1 million of undrawn letters of credit. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 15 Table of Contents • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the agreement governing our new senior secured credit facilities contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with those restrictions could be substantial. We may also seek to amend or refinance one or more of our debt instruments to permit us to finance our growth strategy or improve the terms of our indebtedness. In addition, the borrowings under our new senior secured credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Assuming all amounts under our senior secured credit facilities are fully drawn, a 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in a $8.4 million change in annual interest expense on our indebtedness under our new senior secured credit facilities (subject to our base rate and LIBOR floors, as applicable). While we may in the future enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. The terms of our indebtedness restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to incur certain liens, make investments and acquisitions, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock, or enter into certain other types of contractual arrangements affecting our subsidiaries or indebtedness. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the new $890.0 million credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests, and we expect that the agreements governing any new senior secured credit facilities will contain similar requirements to satisfy financial condition tests and, with respect to any new revolving credit facility, maintain specified financial ratios, subject to certain conditions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of the covenants under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities or the indentures that govern our notes, or any replacement facility, could result in an event of default unless we obtain a waiver to avoid such default. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Acquisitions may disrupt our operations or expose us to additional risk. Acquisitions are an integral part of our growth strategy. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including potential difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, such as bringing new centers through the re-licensing or accreditation processes, successfully implementing our curriculum programs, not meeting financial objectives, increased costs, undisclosed liabilities not covered by insurance or by the terms of the acquisition, diversion of management’s attention and resources in connection with an acquisition, loss of key employees of the acquired operation, failure of acquired operations to effectively and timely adopt our internal control 16 Table of Contents processes and other policies, and write-offs or impairment charges relating to goodwill and other intangible assets. We may not have success in identifying, executing and integrating acquisitions in the future. The success of our operations in international markets is highly dependent on the expertise of local management and operating staff, as well as the political, social, legal and economic operating conditions of each country in which we operate. The success of our business depends on the actions of our employees. In international markets that are newer to our business, we are highly dependent on our current local management and operating staff to operate our centers in these markets in accordance with local law and best practices. If the local management or operating staff were to leave our employment, we would have to expend significant time and resources building up our management or operational expertise in these markets. Such a transition could adversely affect our reputation in these markets and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If the international markets in which we compete are affected by changes in political, social, legal, economic or other factors, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2013, we had 238 centers located in five foreign countries; therefore, we are subject to inherent risks attributed to operating in a global economy. Our international operations may subject us to additional risks that differ in each country in which we operate, and such risks may negatively affect our results. The factors impacting the international markets in which we operate may include changes in laws and regulations affecting the operation of child care centers, the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or increases in the taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws. In addition, instability in European financial markets or other events could cause fluctuations in exchange rates that may affect our revenues. Most of our revenues, costs and debts are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, revenues and costs from our operations outside of the United States are denominated in the currency of the country in which the center is located, and these currencies could become less valuable as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. The current European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the European currencies, including the British pound and the Euro, to deteriorate. The potential dissolution of the Euro, or market perceptions concerning this and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our Euro- and British pound-denominated assets. Unfavorable currency fluctuations as a result of this and other market forces could result in a reduction in our revenues and net earnings, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Because our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and reputation as a provider of choice, adverse publicity could impact the demand for our services. Adverse publicity concerning reported incidents or allegations of physical or sexual abuse or other harm to a child at any child care center, whether or not directly relating to or involving Bright Horizons, could result in decreased enrollment at our child care centers, termination of existing corporate relationships or inability to attract new corporate relationships, or increased insurance costs, all of which could adversely affect our operations. Brand value and our reputation can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in substantial litigation. These incidents may arise from events that are beyond our ability to control and may damage our brands and reputation, such as instances of physical or sexual abuse or actions taken (or not taken) by one or more center managers or teachers relating to the health, safety or welfare of children in our care. In addition, from time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action against us. Whether or not customer claims or legal action related to our performance have merit, they may adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our services. Demand for our services could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our services, which would likely result in lower sales, and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Any reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our brand value and our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our business activities subject us to litigation risks that may lead to significant reputational damage, money damages and other remedies and increase our litigation expense. Because of the nature of our business, we may be subject to claims and litigation alleging negligence, inadequate supervision or other grounds for liability arising from injuries or other harm to the people we serve, primarily children. We may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. In addition, claimants may seek damages from us for physical or sexual abuse, and other acts allegedly committed by our employees or agents. We face the risk that additional lawsuits may be filed which could result in damages and other costs that our insurance may be inadequate to cover. In addition to diverting our management resources, such allegations may result in publicity that may materially and adversely affect us and our brands, regardless of whether such allegations are valid. Any such claim or the publicity resulting from it may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition including, without limitation, adverse effects caused by increased cost or decreased availability of insurance and decreased demand for our services from employer sponsors and families. Our international operations may be subject to additional risks related to litigation, including difficulties enforcing contractual obligations governed by foreign law due to differing interpretations of rights and obligations, limitations on the availability of insurance coverage and limits, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, new and potentially untested laws and judicial systems and reduced or diminished protection of intellectual property. A substantial judgment against us or one of our subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our continued profitability depends on our ability to pass on our increased costs to our customers. Hiring and retaining key employees and qualified personnel, including teachers, is critical to our business. Because we are primarily a services business, inflationary factors such as wage and benefits cost increases result in significant increases in the costs of running our business. In addition, increased competition for teachers in certain markets could result in significant increases in the costs of running our business. Any employee organizing efforts could also increase our payroll and benefits expenses. Our success depends on our ability to continue to pass along these costs to our customers. In the event that we cannot increase the cost of our services to cover these higher wage and benefit costs without reducing customer demand for our services, our revenues could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our growth. Changes in our relationships with employer sponsors may affect our operating results. We derive a significant portion of our business from child care and early education centers associated with employer sponsors for whom we provide these services at single or multiple sites pursuant to contractual arrangements. Our contracts with employers for full service center-based care typically have terms of three to ten years, and our contracts related to back-up dependent care typically have terms of one to three years. While we have a history of consistent contract renewals, we may not experience a similar renewal rate in the future. The termination or non-renewal of a significant number of contracts or the termination of a multiple-site client relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Significant increases in the costs of insurance or of insurance claims or our deductibles may negatively affect our profitability. We currently maintain the following major types of commercial insurance policies: workers’ compensation, commercial general liability (including coverage for sexual and physical abuse), professional liability, automobile liability, excess and “umbrella” liability, commercial property coverage, student accident coverage, employment practices liability, commercial crime coverage, fiduciary liability, privacy breach/Internet liability 18 Table of Contents and directors’ and officers’ liability. These policies are subject to various limitations, exclusions and deductibles. To date, we have been able to obtain insurance in amounts we believe to be appropriate. Such insurance, particularly coverage for sexual and physical abuse, may not continue to be readily available to us in the form or amounts we have been able to obtain in the past, or our insurance premiums could materially increase in the future as a consequence of conditions in the insurance business or in the child care industry. Changes in laws and regulations could impact the way we conduct business. Our child care and early education centers are subject to numerous national, state and local regulations and licensing requirements. Although these regulations vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, government agencies generally review, among other issues, the adequacy of buildings and equipment, licensed capacity, the ratio of adults to children, educational qualifications and training of staff, record keeping, dietary program, daily curriculum, hiring practices and compliance with health and safety standards. Failure of a child care or early education center to comply with applicable regulations and requirements could subject it to governmental sanctions, which can include fines, corrective orders, placement on probation or, in more serious cases, suspension or revocation of one or more of our child care centers’ licenses to operate, and require significant expenditures to bring our centers into compliance. Although we expect to pay employees at rates above the minimum wage, increases in the statutory minimum wage rates could result in a corresponding increase in the wages we pay to our employees. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our revenue and results of operations fluctuate with the seasonal demands for child care and the other services we provide. Revenue in our child care centers that have mature operating levels typically declines during the third quarter due to decreased enrollments over the summer months as families withdraw children for vacations and older children transition into elementary schools. In addition, use of our back-up services tends to be higher when school is not in session and during holiday periods, which can increase the operating costs of the program and impact results of operations. We may be unable to adjust our expenses on a short-term basis to minimize the effect of these fluctuations in revenue. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate based upon the number and timing of child care center openings and/or closings, acquisitions, the performance of new and existing child care and early education centers, the contractual arrangements under which child care centers are operated, the change in the mix of such contractual arrangements, competitive factors and general economic conditions. The inability of existing child care centers to maintain their current enrollment levels and profitability, the failure of newly opened child care centers to contribute to profitability and the failure to maintain and grow our other services could result in additional fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. We depend on key management and key employees to manage our business. Our success depends on the efforts, abilities and continued services of our executive officers and other key employees. We believe future success will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly-skilled managerial, sales and marketing, divisional, regional and child care and early education center director personnel. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. We compete for enrollment and sponsorship of our child care and early education centers in a highly-fragmented market. For enrollment, we compete with family child care (operated out of the caregiver’s home) and center-based child care (such as residential and work-site child care centers, full- and part-time nursery schools, private and public elementary schools and church-affiliated and other not-for-profit providers). In addition, substitutes for organized child care, such as relatives and nannies caring for children, can represent lower cost alternatives to our services. For sponsorship, we compete primarily with large residential child care 19 Table of Contents companies with divisions focused on employer sponsorship and with regional child care providers who target employer sponsorship. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including quality of care, site convenience and cost. We often face a price disadvantage to our competition, which may have access to greater financial resources, greater name recognition or lower operating or compliance costs. In addition, certain competitors may be able to operate with little or no rental expense and sometimes do not comply or are not required to comply with the same health, safety and operational regulations with which we comply. Therefore, we may be unable to continue to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The growth of our business may be adversely affected if we do not execute our growth strategies successfully. Our ability to grow in the future will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to develop and expand new and existing client relationships, to continue to provide and expand the high-quality services we offer and to hire and train qualified personnel. Achieving and sustaining growth increases requires the successful execution of our growth strategies, which may require the implementation of enhancements to operational and financial systems, expanded sales and marketing capacity and additional or new organizational resources. We may be unable to manage our expanding operations effectively, or we may be unable to maintain or accelerate our growth. Governmental universal child care benefit programs could reduce the demand for our services. National, state or local child care benefit programs comprised primarily of subsidies in the form of tax credits or other direct government financial aid provide us opportunities for expansion in additional markets. However, a universal benefit with governmentally mandated or provided child care could reduce the demand for early care services at our existing child care and early education centers due to the availability of lower cost care alternatives or could place downward pressure on the tuition and fees we charge, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Breaches in data security could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. For various operational needs, we receive certain personal information including credit card information and personal information for the children and families that we serve. While we have policies and practices that protect our data, a compromise of our systems that results in unauthorized persons obtaining personal information could adversely affect our reputation and our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, and could result in litigation against us or in the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require us to expend significant additional resources related to the security of our information systems and could result in a disruption to our operations. A regional or global health pandemic or other catastrophic event could severely disrupt our business. A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. A regional or global health pandemic, depending upon its duration and severity, could severely affect our business. Enrollment in our child care centers could experience sharp declines as families might avoid taking their children out in public in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public interactions to halt or delay the spread of diseases causing business disruptions and the temporary closure of our centers. Additionally, a health pandemic could also impair our ability to hire and retain an adequate level of staff. A health pandemic may have a disproportionate impact on our business compared to other companies that depend less on the performance of services by employees. Other unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international, regional or local instability or conflicts (including labor issues), embargos, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations or result in political or economic instability. Enrollment in our child care centers could experience sharp declines as families might avoid taking their children out in public as a result of one or more of these events. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange listing rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Our Sponsor continues to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We intend to continue to utilize these exemptions. Accordingly, we do not have a majority of independent directors, our compensation committee does not consist entirely of independent directors and the board committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. In addition, we do not have a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, investors do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. The Sponsor, however, is not subject to any contractual obligation to retain its controlling interest. There can be no assurance as to the period of time during which the Sponsor will maintain its ownership of our common stock. Our stock price could be extremely volatile, and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. Since our initial public offering in January 2013, the price of our common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, has ranged from a low of $27.50 on January 25, 2013 to a high of $40.00 on March 10, 2014. In addition, the stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere herein and others such as: • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; • additions and departures of key personnel; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; 21 Table of Contents • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in accounting principles; • terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest; • natural disasters and other calamities; and • changes in general market and economic conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. There may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. As of March 10, 2014, there were 65,732,666 shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 65.6% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by investment funds affiliated with the Sponsor and members of our management and employees. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. In addition, certain holders of shares of our common stock may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws, and holders of additional shares of our common stock would be entitled to have their shares included in any such registration statement, all subject to reduction upon the request of the underwriter of the Offering, if any. Registration of those shares would allow the holders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. Any such sales or anticipation thereof could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we have registered shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance under our 2012 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that could be beneficial to stockholder value. In addition to the Sponsor’s beneficial ownership of a controlling percentage of our common stock, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquirer. Our certificate of incorporation also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock other than the Sponsor. As a result, you may lose your ability to sell your stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the company may be unsuccessful. 22 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our by-laws, or (iv) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The Sponsor continues to have significant influence over us in the future, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. We are currently controlled by the Sponsor. As of March 10, 2014, investment funds affiliated with the Sponsor beneficially owned 63.7% of our outstanding common stock. For as long as the Sponsor continues to beneficially own shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, it will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors and could exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, the repurchase or redemption of common stock and the payment of dividends. Similarly, the Sponsor will have the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders without the consent of our other stockholders, will have the power to prevent a change in our control and could take other actions that might be favorable to it. Even if its ownership falls below 50%, the Sponsor will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Additionally, the Sponsor is in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operations, expansion and debt repayment and have no current plans to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our senior credit facilities. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 