ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors in evaluating our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations or an investment in our stock. Although we describe below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K the risks we consider to be the most material, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, business or operations in the future. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events described below, individually or in combination, were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Factors Relating to Our Corporate History and Structure We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. Monitronics, our primary operating subsidiary, incurred losses in each of its last three full fiscal years. In future periods, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent quarterly or annual basis. Failure to maintain profitability in future periods may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are a holding company and derive substantially all of our revenue and cash flow from our primary operating subsidiary, Monitronics. Monitronics is a separate and independent legal entity and has no obligation to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. The ability of Monitronics to pay dividends to us is subject to, among other things, compliance with covenants in its Credit Facility and Senior Note indenture, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds, and applicable state laws. As of December 31, 2013, Monitronics had indebtedness of $1,606,793,000, which includes a 9.868% promissory note for $100,000,000 due to the Company. Claims of other creditors of Monitronics have priority as to its assets over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. An inability to access capital markets at attractive rates could materially increase our expenses. Although we currently have sufficient cash and investments available to meet our anticipated capital requirements for the foreseeable future, we may in the future require access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for investments and expenditures. In any such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If our ability to access required capital were to become significantly constrained, we could incur material borrowing costs, our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. We may have substantial indemnification obligations under certain inter-company agreements we entered into in connection with the spin-off of our company from DHC. Pursuant to our tax sharing agreement with DHC, we have agreed to be responsible for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). We have also agreed to be responsible for and indemnify DHC with respect to (i) certain taxes attributable to DHC or any of its subsidiaries (other than Discovery Communications, LLC) and (ii) all taxes arising as a result of the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). Our indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Pursuant to the reorganization agreement we entered into with DHC in connection with the spin-off, we assumed certain indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all non-tax liabilities that may exist relating to the business of our former subsidiary, AMG, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as certain obligations of DHC. Any indemnification payments under the tax sharing agreement or the reorganization agreement could be substantial. Factors Relating to Monitronics Monitronics faces risks in acquiring and integrating new subscribers. The acquisition of alarm monitoring contracts involves a number of risks, including the risk that the alarm monitoring contracts acquired through Monitronics’ dealer network may not be profitable due to higher than expected account attrition, lower than expected 11 Table of Contents revenues from the alarm monitoring contracts or, when applicable, lower than expected recoveries from dealers. The cost paid to a dealer for an alarm monitoring contract is affected by the monthly recurring revenue generated by the alarm monitoring contract, as well as several other factors, including the level of competition, prior experience with alarm monitoring contracts acquired from the dealer, the number of alarm monitoring contracts acquired, the subscriber’s credit score and the type of security equipment used by the subscriber. To the extent that the servicing costs or the attrition rates are higher than expected or the revenues from the alarm monitoring contracts or, when applicable, the recoveries from dealers are lower than expected, Monitronics’ business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Monitronics’ customer generation strategies and the competitive market for customer accounts may affect its future profitability. A significant element of Monitronics’ business strategy is the generation of new customer accounts through its dealer network, which accounted for approximately 88% of Monitronics’ new customer accounts for the year ended December 31, 2013, excluding accounts acquired in the Security Networks Acquisition. Monitronics’ future operating results will depend in large part on its ability to manage its generation strategies effectively. Although Monitronics currently generates accounts through hundreds of authorized dealers, a significant portion of its accounts originate from a smaller number of dealers. Monitronics experiences loss of dealers from its dealer network due to various factors, such as dealers becoming inactive or discontinuing their electronic security business and competition from other alarm monitoring companies. If Monitronics experiences a loss of dealers representing a significant portion of its account generation engine or if Monitronics is unable to replace or recruit dealers in accordance with its business plans, Monitronics’ business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Monitronics is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its subscribers. Substantially all of Monitronics revenues are derived from the recurring monthly revenue due from subscribers under the alarm monitoring contracts. Therefore, Monitronics is dependent on the ability and willingness of subscribers to pay amounts due under the alarm monitoring contracts on a monthly basis in a timely manner. Although subscribers are contractually obligated to pay amounts due under an alarm monitoring contract and are prohibited from canceling the alarm monitoring contract for the initial term of the alarm monitoring contract (typically between three and five years), subscribers’ payment obligations are unsecured, which could impair Monitronics’ ability to collect any unpaid amounts from its subscribers. To the extent payment defaults by subscribers under the alarm monitoring contracts are greater than anticipated, Monitronics’ business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Monitronics relies on a significant number of its subscribers remaining with it for an extended period of time. Monitronics incurs significant upfront cash costs for each new subscriber. Monitronics requires a substantial amount of time, typically exceeding the initial term of the related alarm monitoring contract, to receive cash payments (net of variable cash operating costs) from a particular subscriber that are sufficient to offset this upfront cost. Accordingly, Monitronics’ long-term performance is dependent on Monitronics’ subscribers remaining with it for as long as possible. This requires Monitronics to minimize its rate of subscriber cancellations, or attrition. Factors that can increase cancellations include subscribers who relocate and do not reconnect, problems with service quality, competition from other alarm monitoring companies, equipment obsolescence, adverse economic conditions and the affordability of Monitronics’ service. If Monitronics fails to keep its subscribers for a sufficiently long period of time, attrition rates would be higher than expected and Monitronics’ financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Monitronics may experience higher attrition rates with respect to subscribers acquired in bulk buys than subscribers acquired pursuant to Monitronics’ dealer program. 12 Table of Contents Monitronics is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its dealers. Under the standard alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements that Monitronics enters into with its dealers, if a subscriber terminates their service with Monitronics during the first twelve months after the alarm monitoring contract has been acquired, the dealer is typically required to elect between substituting another alarm monitoring contract for the terminating alarm monitoring contract or compensating Monitronics in an amount based on the original acquisition cost of the terminating alarm monitoring contract. Monitronics is subject to the risk that dealers will breach their obligation to provide a comparable substitute alarm monitoring contract for a terminating alarm monitoring contract. Although Monitronics withholds specified amounts from the acquisition cost paid to dealers for alarm monitoring contracts (“holdback”), which may be used to satisfy or offset these and other applicable dealer obligations under the alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements, there can be no guarantee that these amounts will be sufficient to satisfy or offset the full extent of the default by a dealer of its obligations under its agreement. If the holdback does prove insufficient to cover dealer obligations, Monitronics is also subject to the credit risk that the dealers may not have sufficient funds to compensate Monitronics or that any such dealer will otherwise breach its obligation to compensate Monitronics for a terminating alarm monitoring contract. To the extent defaults by dealers of the obligations under their agreements are greater than anticipated, Monitronics’ financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The alarm monitoring business is subject to macroeconomic factors that may negatively impact Monitronics’ results of operations, including prolonged downturns in the housing market. The alarm monitoring business is dependent in part on national, regional and local economic conditions. In particular, where disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by higher housing, energy, interest or other costs or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), the alarm monitoring business could experience increased attrition rates and reduced consumer demand. Although Monitronics has continued to grow its business in the most recent periods of general economic downturn, no assurance can be given that it will be able to continue acquiring quality alarm monitoring contracts or that it will not experience higher attrition rates. In addition, any deterioration in new construction and sales of existing single family homes could reduce opportunities to grow Monitronics’ subscriber accounts from the sales of new security systems and services and the take-over of existing security systems that had previously been monitored by its competitors. If the general economic downturn is prolonged or materially worsens, Monitronics’ results of operations and subscriber account growth could be materially and adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in states where Monitronics’ subscribers are more heavily concentrated may negatively impact Monitronics’ results of operations. Even as economic conditions may improve in the United States as a whole, this improvement may not occur or further deterioration may occur in the regions where Monitronics’ subscribers are more heavily concentrated (such as Texas, California, Florida and Arizona). Although Monitronics has a geographically diverse subscriber base, adverse conditions in one or more states where our business is more heavily concentrated could have a significant adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. If the insurance industry were to change its practice of providing incentives to homeowners for the use of alarm monitoring services, Monitronics may experience a reduction in new customer growth or an increase in its subscriber attrition rate. It has been common practice in the insurance industry to provide a reduction in rates for policies written on homes that have monitored alarm systems. There can be no assurance that insurance companies will continue to offer these rate reductions. If these incentives were reduced or eliminated, new homeowners who otherwise may not feel the need for alarm monitoring services would be removed from Monitronics’ potential customer pool, which could hinder the growth of its business, and existing subscribers may choose to disconnect or not renew their service contracts, which could increase Monitronics’ attrition rates. In either case, Monitronics’ results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Risks of liability from Monitronics’ business and operations may be significant. The nature of the services Monitronics provides potentially exposes it to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. If subscribers believe that they incurred losses as a result of an action or failure to act by Monitronics, the subscribers (or their insurers) could bring claims against Monitronics, and Monitronics has been subject to lawsuits of this type from time to time. Similarly, if dealers believe that they incurred losses or were denied rights under the alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreements as a result of an action or failure to act by Monitronics, the dealers could bring claims against Monitronics. Although substantially all of Monitronics’ alarm monitoring contracts and contract acquisition agreements contain provisions limiting its liability to subscribers and dealers, respectively, in an attempt to reduce this risk, the alarm monitoring contracts or a contract acquisition agreement that do not contain such provisions expose Monitronics to risks of liability that could 13 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect its business. Moreover, even when such provisions are included in an alarm monitoring contract or alarm monitoring contract acquisition agreement, in the event of any such litigation, no assurance can be given that these limitations will be enforced, and the costs of such litigation or the related settlements or judgments could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that Monitronics is adequately insured for these risks. Certain of its insurance policies and the laws of some states may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages or liability arising from gross negligence. If significant uninsured damages are assessed against Monitronics, the resulting liability could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. See note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, incorporated by reference herein. Future litigation could result in adverse publicity for Monitronics. In the ordinary course of business, from time to time, Monitronics is the subject of complaints or litigation from subscribers or inquiries from government officials, sometimes related to alleged violations of state consumer protection statutes (including by its dealers), negligent dealer installation or negligent service of alarm monitoring systems. Monitronics may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, alleged discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination claims. In addition to diverting management resources, adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially and adversely affect Monitronics’ reputation in the communities it services, regardless of whether such allegations are unfounded. Such adverse publicity could result in higher attrition rates and greater difficulty in attracting new subscribers on terms that are attractive to Monitronics or at all. An inability to provide the contracted monitoring service could adversely affect Monitronics’ business. A disruption to both the main monitoring facilities and the back-up monitoring facility could affect Monitronics’ ability to provide alarm monitoring services to its subscribers. Monitronics’ main monitoring facilities hold UL listings as protective signaling services stations and maintain certain standards of building integrity, redundant computer and communications facilities and backup power, among other safeguards. However, no assurance can be given that Monitronics’ main monitoring facilities will not be disrupted by a technical failure, including communication or hardware failures, catastrophic event or natural disaster, fire, weather, malicious acts or terrorism. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that Monitronics’ back-up monitoring center will not be disrupted by the same or a simultaneous event or that it will be able to perform effectively in the event its main monitoring centers are disrupted. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business. Monitronics relies on third parties to transmit signals to its monitoring facilities. Monitronics relies on various third-party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to its monitoring facilities in a timely and consistent manner. These telecommunications providers and signal processing centers could fail to transmit or communicate these signals to the monitoring facilities for many reasons, including due to disruptions from fire, natural disasters, weather, transmission interruption, malicious acts or terrorism. The failure of one or more of these telecommunications providers or signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facilities in a timely manner could affect Monitronics’ ability to provide alarm monitoring services to its subscribers. There can be no assurance that third-party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers will continue to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facilities without disruption. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business. See also “Shifts in customer choice of, or telecommunications providers’ support for, telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact Monitronics’ business and require significant capital expenditures” below with respect to risks associated with changes in signal transmissions. The alarm monitoring business is subject to technological innovation over time. Monitronics’ monitoring services depend upon the technology (both hardware and software) of security alarm systems located at subscribers’ premises. Monitronics may be required to implement new technology both to attract and retain subscribers or in response to changes in land-line or cellular technology or other factors, which could require significant expenditures. In addition, the availability of any new features developed for use in Monitronics’ industry (whether developed by Monitronics or otherwise) can have a significant impact on a subscriber’s initial decision to choose Monitronics’ or its competitor’s products and a subscriber’s decision to renew with Monitronics or switch to one of its competitors. To the extent its competitors have greater capital and other resources to dedicate to responding to technological innovation over time, the products and services offered by Monitronics may become less attractive to current or future subscribers thereby reducing demand for such products and services and increasing attrition over time. Those competitors that benefit from more capital being available to them may be at a particular advantage to Monitronics in this respect. If Monitronics is unable to adapt in response to changing technologies, market conditions or customer requirements in a timely manner, such inability could adversely affect its business by increasing its rate of subscriber attrition. Monitronics also faces potential competition from improvements in self-monitoring systems, which enable current or future subscribers to monitor their home environments without third-party involvement, which could further increase attrition rates over time and hinder the acquisition of new alarm monitoring contracts. 14 Table of Contents Shifts in customer choice of, or telecommunications providers’ support for, telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact Monitronics’ business and require significant capital expenditures. A significant portion of Monitronics’ subscriber alarm systems use either a traditional, land-line telecommunication service or a 2G cellular service to communicate alarm signals from the subscribers’ locations to its monitoring facilities. There is a growing trend for consumers to give up their land-line and exclusively use cellular and IP communication technology in their homes and businesses, and telecommunications providers may discontinue land-line services in the future. In addition, certain telecommunications providers have announced that they will stop supporting their 2G cellular networks in the future. As land-line or 2G cellular network service is discontinued, subscribers with alarm systems that are not compatible with the newer cellular or IP communication technology, such as 3G and 4G networks, will need to replace certain equipment in their security system to maintain their monitoring service. This could increase Monitronics’ subscriber attrition rates and, to retain customers, require Monitronics to subsidize the replacement of subscribers’ outdated systems at its own expense. Any such upgrades or implementations could require significant expenditures and also divert management’s attention and other important resources away from customer service and sales efforts. In addition, Monitronics may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands in the future. If Monitronics is unable to adapt timely to changing technologies, market conditions or customer preferences, its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Privacy concerns, such as consumer identity theft and security breaches, could hurt Monitronics’ reputation and revenues. As part of its operations, Monitronics collects a large amount of private information from its subscribers, including credit card information, images and voice recordings. If it were to experience a breach of its data security, it may put private information of its subscribers at risk of exposure. To the extent that any such exposure leads to credit card fraud or identity theft, Monitronics may experience a general decline in consumer confidence in its business, which may lead to an increase in attrition rates or may make it more difficult to attract new subscribers. If consumers become reluctant to use Monitronics’ services because of concerns over data privacy or credit card fraud, Monitronics’ ability to generate revenues would be impaired. In addition, if technology upgrades or other expenditures are required to prevent security breaches of its network, boost general consumer confidence in its business, or prevent credit card fraud and identity theft, Monitronics may be required to make unplanned capital expenditures or expend other resources. Any such loss of confidence in Monitronics’ business or additional capital expenditure requirement could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Monitronics’ reputation as a service provider of high quality security offerings may be adversely affected by product defects or shortfalls in customer service. Monitronics’ business depends on its reputation and ability to maintain good relationships with its subscribers, dealers and local regulators, among others. Its reputation may be harmed either through product defects, such as the failure of one or more of its subscribers’ alarm systems, or shortfalls in customer service. Subscribers generally judge Monitronics’ performance through their interactions with the staff at the monitoring centers, dealers and technicians who perform on-site maintenance services. Any failure to meet subscribers’ expectations in such customer service areas could cause an increase in attrition rates or make it difficult to recruit new subscribers. Any harm to Monitronics’ reputation or subscriber relationships caused by the actions of its dealers, personnel or third party service providers or any other factors could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. A loss of experienced employees could adversely affect Monitronics. The success of Monitronics has been largely dependent upon the active participation of its officers and employees. The loss of the services of key members of its management for any reason may have a material adverse effect on its operations and the ability to maintain and grow its business. Monitronics depends on the managerial skills and expertise of its management and employees to provide customer service by, among other things, monitoring and responding to alarm signals, coordinating equipment repairs, administering billing and collections under the alarm monitoring contracts and administering and providing dealer services under the contract acquisition agreements. There is no assurance that Monitronics will be able to retain its current management and other experienced employees or replace them satisfactorily to the extent they leave its employ. The loss of any such experienced employees’ services and expertise could materially and adversely affect Monitronics’ business. 15 Table of Contents The high level of competition in Monitronics’ industry could adversely affect its business. The security alarm monitoring industry is highly competitive and fragmented. As of December 31, 2013, Monitronics was one of the largest alarm monitoring companies in the U.S. when measured by the total number of subscribers under contract. Monitronics faces competition from other alarm monitoring companies, including companies that have more capital and that may offer higher prices and more favorable terms to dealers for alarm monitoring contracts or charge lower prices for monitoring services. Monitronics also faces competition from a significant number of small regional competitors that concentrate their capital and other resources in targeting local markets and forming new marketing channels that may displace the existing alarm system dealer channels for acquiring alarm monitoring contracts. Further, Monitronics is facing increasing competition from telecommunications and cable companies who are expanding into alarm monitoring services and bundling their existing offerings with monitored security services. The existing access to and relationship with subscribers that these companies have could give them a substantial advantage over Monitronics, especially if they are able to offer subscribers a lower price by bundling these services. Any of these forms of competition could reduce the acquisition opportunities available to Monitronics, thus slowing its rate of growth, or requiring it to increase the price paid for subscriber accounts, thus reducing its return on investment and negatively impacting its revenues and results of operations. Monitronics’ acquisition strategy may not be successful. One focus of Monitronics’ strategy is to seek opportunities to grow free cash flow through strategic acquisitions, which may include leveraged acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance that Monitronics will be able to consummate that strategy, and if Monitronics is not able to invest its capital in acquisitions that are accretive to free cash flow it could negatively impact its growth. Monitronics’ ability to consummate such acquisitions may be negatively impacted by various factors, including among other things: · failure to identify attractive acquisition candidates on acceptable terms; · competition from other bidders; · inability to raise any required financing; and · antitrust or other regulatory restrictions, including any requirements that may be imposed by government agencies as a condition to any required regulatory approval. If Monitronics engages in any acquisition, it will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. If Monitronics undertakes any acquisition, the process of operating such acquired business may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including the assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of such acquired business and the possibility of litigation or other claims in connection with, or as a result of, such an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. Moreover, Monitronics may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all, and it may experience increased attrition in its subscriber base and/or a loss of dealer relationships and difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into its business or achieving anticipated operations efficiencies or cost savings. Future acquisitions could cause Monitronics to incur debt and expose it to liabilities. Further, Monitronics may incur significant expenditures and devote substantial management time and attention in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. Lastly, while it intends to implement appropriate controls and procedures as it integrates any acquired companies, Monitronics may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies’ disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting within the time periods required by U.S. federal securities laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that the Security Networks Acquisition will be beneficial to Monitronics. We cannot assure you that the Security Networks Acquisition will achieve the desired benefits of the transaction, including potential synergies. The Security Networks Acquisition substantially increased the size of Monitronics’ business and its failure to successfully complete the integration of Security Networks’ assets into its existing business could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the Security Networks Acquisition, Monitronics faces numerous risks, including: (i) a potential increase in attrition rates with respects to its larger subscriber base, (ii) a potential loss of dealer relationships, (iii) unanticipated liabilities, costs and operating difficulties and expenditures and (iv) the potential diversion of management’s time and resources to the integration process and away from the core business. Also, in connection with the completion of the Security Networks Acquisition, Monitronics incurred numerous transaction and acquisition-related fees and costs and expects to incur additional costs until the integration of the Security Networks business is completed. If any of these risks were to materialize, the desired benefits of the Security Networks Acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, and Monitronics’ future financial performance and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain additional funds to grow Monitronics’ business. Monitronics intends to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of subscriber accounts through its authorized dealer network, among other means. To continue its growth strategy, it intends to make additional drawdowns under the revolving credit portion of its Credit Facility and may seek financing through new credit arrangements or the possible sale of new securities, any of which may lead to higher leverage or result in higher borrowing costs. An inability to obtain funding through external financing sources on favorable terms or at all is likely to adversely affect Monitronics’ ability to continue or accelerate its subscriber account acquisition activities. Monitronics may pursue business opportunities that diverge from its current business model, which may cause its business to suffer. Monitronics may pursue business opportunities that diverge from its current business model, including expanding its products or service offerings, investing in new and unproven technologies, adding customer acquisition channels and forming new alliances with companies to market its services. Monitronics can offer no assurance that any such business opportunities will prove to be successful. Among other negative effects, Monitronics’ pursuit of such business opportunities could cause its cost of investment in new customers to grow at a faster rate than its recurring revenue and revenue from installations. Additionally, any new alliances or customer acquisition channels could have higher cost structures than Monitronics’ current arrangements, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital. In the event that working capital requirements exceed operating cash flow, Monitronics might be required to draw on its Credit Facility or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect Monitronics’ business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Third party claims with respect to Monitronics’ intellectual property (including the intellectual property of Security Networks), if decided against Monitronics, may result in competing uses of Monitronics’ intellectual property or require the adoption of new, non-infringing intellectual property. Monitronics has received and may continue to receive notices claiming it committed intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other intellectual property violations and third parties have claimed, and may, in the future, claim that Monitronics does not own or have rights to use all intellectual property rights used in the conduct of its business. While Monitronics does not believe that any of the currently outstanding claims are material, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert future infringement claims against it or claim that its rights to its intellectual property are invalid or unenforceable, and Monitronics cannot guarantee that these claims will be unsuccessful. Any claims involving rights to use the “Monitronics” mark or the “Security Networks” mark could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business if such claims were decided against Monitronics and Monitronics was precluded from using or licensing the “Monitronics” mark or the “Security Networks” mark or others were allowed to use either such mark. If Monitronics was required to adopt a new name, it would entail marketing costs in connection with building up recognition and goodwill in such new name. In the event that Monitronics was enjoined from using any of its other intellectual property, there would be costs associated with the replacement of such intellectual property with developed, acquired or licensed intellectual property. There would also be costs associated with the defense and settlement of any infringement or misappropriation allegations and any damages that may be awarded. Monitronics has a substantial amount of indebtedness and the costs of servicing that debt may materially affect its business. Monitronics has a significant amount of indebtedness. Monitronics funded the Security Networks Acquisition through a combination of additional Senior Notes and entering into new term loans under its existing Credit Facility, which caused its level of indebtedness to increase. As of December 31, 2013, Monitronics had indebtedness of $1,606,793,000, which includes a 9.868% promissory note of $100,000,000 due to the Company. That substantial indebtedness, combined with its other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for Monitronics to satisfy its obligations with respect to its existing and future indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations under any of the agreements governing its indebtedness could result in an event of default under such agreements; · require Monitronics to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations (which also constitutes substantially all of our cash flow) to the payment of interest and principal due under its indebtedness, which will reduce funds available to fund future subscriber account acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the markets in which it operates; · limit Monitronics’ ability to obtain additional financing required to fund future subscriber account acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; 17 Table of Contents · expose Monitronics to market fluctuations in interest rates; · place Monitronics at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of its competitors that are less leveraged; · reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures; and · cause any refinancing of Monitronics’ indebtedness to be at higher interest rates and require Monitronics to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict its business operations. The agreements governing Monitronics various debt obligations, including its Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes, impose restrictions on its business and the business of its subsidiaries and such restrictions could adversely affect Monitronics’ ability to undertake certain corporate actions. The agreements governing Monitronics’ indebtedness restrict its ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · make certain dividends or distributions with respect to any of its capital stock; · make certain loans and investments; · create liens; · enter into transactions with affiliates, including Ascent Capital; · restrict subsidiary distributions; · dissolve, merge or consolidate; · annual limits on the amount of capital expenditures · transfer, sell or dispose of assets; · enter into or acquire certain types of alarm monitoring contracts; · enter into certain transactions with affiliates; · make certain amendments to its organizational documents; · make changes in the nature of its business; · enter into certain burdensome agreements; · make accounting changes; · use proceeds of loans to purchase or carry margin stock; and · allow the suspension of alarm licenses. In addition, Monitronics also must comply with certain financial covenants under the Credit Facility that require it to maintain a consolidated total leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of not more than 5.00 to 1.00 through June 30, 2015 and then 4.50 to 1.00 thereafter, a consolidated senior secured leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of not more than 3.25 to 1.00 through June 30, 2015 and then 3.00 to 1.00 thereafter, a consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of not less than 2.00 to 1.00, each of which is calculated quarterly on a trailing twelve-month basis. In addition, the revolving portion of the Credit Facility requires Monitronics to maintain a consolidated senior secured RMR leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Facility) of no more than 28.0 to 1.00, calculated quarterly, and an attrition rate (as defined in the Credit Facility) of no more than 15.0%, calculated quarterly on a trailing twelve-month basis. If Monitronics cannot comply with any of these financial covenants, or if Monitronics or any of its subsidiaries fails to comply with the restrictions contained in the Credit Facility, such failure could lead to an event of default and Monitronics may not be able to make additional drawdowns under the revolving portion of the Credit Facility, which would limit its ability to manage its working capital requirements. In addition, failure to comply with the financial covenants or restrictions contained in the Credit Facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in the acceleration of a substantial amount of Monitronics’ indebtedness. Factors Relating to Regulatory Matters “False Alarm” ordinances could adversely affect Monitronics’ business and operations. Significant concern has arisen in certain municipalities about the high incidence of false alarms. In some localities, this concern has resulted in local ordinances or policies that restrict police response to third-party monitored burglar alarms. In addition, an increasing number of local governmental authorities have considered or adopted various measures aimed at reducing the number of false alarms, including: · subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms; · imposing fines on alarm monitoring services customers for false alarms; · imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location; and · requiring further verification of an alarm signal, such as visual verification or verification to two different phone numbers, before the police will respond. 18 Table of Contents Enactment of these measures could adversely affect Monitronics’ future operations and business. For example, numerous cities or metropolitan areas have implemented verified response ordinances for residential and commercial burglar alarms. A verified response policy means that police officers generally do not respond to an alarm until someone else (e.g., the resident, a neighbor or a security guard) first verifies that it is valid. Some alarm monitoring companies operating in these areas hire security guards or use third-party guard firms to verify an alarm. If Monitronics needs to hire security guards or use third-party guard firms, it could have a material adverse effect on its business through either increased servicing costs, which could negatively affect the ability to properly fund its ongoing operations, or increased costs to its customer, which may limit its ability to attract new customers or increase its subscriber attrition rates. In addition, the perception that police departments will not respond to third-party monitored burglar alarms, may reduce customer satisfaction with traditional monitored alarm systems, which may also result in increased attrition rates or decreased customer demand. Although Monitronics has less than 40,000 subscribers in these areas, a more widespread adoption of such a policy or similar policies in other cities or municipalities could materially and adversely affect its business. Monitronics’ business operates in a regulated industry. Monitronics’ business, operations and dealers are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection laws, licensing regulation and other laws and regulations, and, to a lesser extent, similar Canadian laws and regulations. While there are no U.S. federal laws that directly regulate the security alarm monitoring industry, Monitronics’ advertising and sales practices and that of its dealer network are subject to regulation by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) in addition to state consumer protection laws. The FTC and the Federal Communications Commission have issued regulations that place restrictions on, among other things, unsolicited automated telephone calls to residential and wireless telephone subscribers by means of automatic telephone dialing systems and the use of prerecorded or artificial voice messages. If Monitronics’ dealers were to take actions in violation of these regulations, such as telemarketing to individuals on the “Do Not Call” registry, it could be subject to fines, penalties, private actions or enforcement actions by government regulators. Although Monitronics has taken steps to insulate itself from any such wrongful conduct by its dealers, and to require its dealers to comply with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that it will not be exposed to liability as result of its dealers’ conduct. In addition, the business practices of some dealers that Monitronics acquired in the Security Networks Acquisition vary from its business practices and those of its existing dealers, including with respect to the amount and type of dealer contact with subscribers. If any such dealers do not comply with applicable laws, Monitronics may be exposed to increased liability and penalties. Further, to the extent that any changes in law or regulation further restrict the lead generation activity of its dealers, these restrictions could result in a material reduction in subscriber acquisition opportunities, reducing the growth prospects of its business and adversely affecting its financial condition and future cash flows. In addition, most states in which Monitronics operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. Monitronics’ business relies heavily upon wireline and cellular telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline and cellular telephone companies are currently regulated by both federal and state governments. Changes in laws or regulations could require Monitronics to change the way it operates, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any such applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of its operating permits and licenses, including in geographic areas where its services have substantial penetration, which could adversely affect its business and financial condition. Further, if these laws and regulations were to change or Monitronics failed to comply with such laws and regulations as they exist today or in the future, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Increased adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to void automatic renewal provisions in the alarm monitoring contracts, or purporting to characterize certain charges in the alarm monitoring contracts as unlawful, could adversely affect Monitronics’ business and operations. The alarm monitoring contracts typically contain provisions automatically renewing the term of the contract at the end of the initial term, unless a cancellation notice is delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract. If the customer cancels prior to the end of the contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, Monitronics may charge the customer an early cancellation fee as specified in the contract, which typically allows Monitronics to charge 80% of the amounts that would have been paid over the remaining term of the contract. Several states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, consumer protection policies or legal precedents which purport to void or substantially limit the automatic renewal provisions of contracts such as the alarm monitoring contracts, or otherwise restrict the charges that can be imposed upon contract cancellation. Such initiatives could negatively impact Monitronics’ business. Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could increase legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed, and the risk that certain customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation. In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have an adverse effect on Monitronics’ business and operations. 19 Table of Contents Factors Relating to Our Common Stock It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, and a Series C that, except in such limited circumstances as may be required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights; · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest or exercise of voting rights; · limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring such action to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders; · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; · requiring shareholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation; · requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B Common Stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B Common Stock would be diluted, for example by issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and · the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. The beneficial ownership by John C. Malone, a former director of the Company, of shares of our common stock, that represent approximately 21% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013, may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, Monitronics’ Credit Facility provides that the occurrence of specified change of control events will result in an event of default thereunder, and the Senior Notes include a covenant that requires Monitronics to make an offer to purchase all outstanding Senior Notes, at 101% of par, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, each of which could cause an acquisition of our company to be prohibitively expensive for a potential bidder. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our shareholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common shareholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of shareholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders. Although our Series B Common Stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, there is no meaningful trading market for the stock. Our Series B Common Stock is not widely held, with 92% of the outstanding shares as of December 31, 2013 beneficially owned by John C. Malone, a former director of the Company. Although it is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, it is sparsely traded and does not have an active trading market. The OTC Bulletin Board tends to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that 20 Table of Contents trade on the OTC Bulletin Board as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations, and market conditions. Each share of the Series B Common Stock is convertible, at any time at the option of the holder, into one share of Series A Common Stock, which is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “ASCMA.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 