Risk Factors” section beginning on page 13. Seasonality The demand for AMG’s core motion picture services, primarily in its Creative Services group, has historically been seasonal, with higher demand in the spring (second fiscal quarter) and fall (fourth fiscal quarter), and lower demand in the winter and summer. Similarly, demand for AMG’s television program services, primarily in its Creative Services group, is higher in winter (first fiscal quarter) and fall (fourth fiscal quarter) and lowest in the summer. Demand for AMG’s commercial services, primarily in its Creative Services group, has historically been fairly consistent with slightly higher activity in the summer (third fiscal quarter). However, as a result of economic conditions in the United States and the possibility of a strike by the Screen Actors Guild, there has been increased volatility in the volume of production of commercials and feature films over the course of the past year, and, in particular, the third and fourth quarters of 2008. AMG anticipates greater fluctuation in demand for its commercial and feature film services as a result of this volatility in production volume. In addition, changes in the timing of the demand for television program services may result in increased business for AMG in the summer. In addition, the timing of long-term projects in AMG’s Content Services group have started to offset the quarters in which there has been historically lower demand for AMG’s motion picture and television services. Regulatory Matters Some of AMG’s subsidiary companies hold licenses and authorizations from the FCC, required for the conduct of their businesses, including earth station and various classes of wireless licenses and an authorization to provide certain services pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Many of the FCC licenses held by such subsidiaries are for transmit/receive earth stations, which cannot be operated without individual licenses. The licenses for these stations are granted for a period of fifteen years and, while the FCC generally renews licenses for satellite earth stations, there can be no assurance that these licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates. Registration with the FCC, rather than licensing, is required for receiving transmissions from domestic 11 Table of Contents satellites from points within the United States. AMG relies on third party licenses or authorizations when it and its subsidiaries transmit domestic satellite traffic through earth stations operated by third parties. The FCC establishes technical standards for satellite transmission equipment that change from time to time and requires coordination of earth stations with land-based microwave systems at certain frequencies to assure non-interference. Transmission equipment must also be installed and operated in a manner that avoids exposing humans to harmful levels of radio-frequency radiation. The placement of earth stations or other antennae also is typically subject to regulation under local zoning ordinances. Wireless licenses generally are granted for a period of ten years. The FCC regulates technical standards governing wireless licenses. The transfer of control and assignment of transmit/receive earth stations and most wireless licenses are subject to the prior approval of the FCC. Competition The entertainment and media services industry is highly competitive, with much of the competition centered in Los Angeles, California, the largest and most competitive market, particularly for domestic television and feature film production as well as for the management of content libraries. We expect that competition will increase as a result of industry consolidation and alliances, as well as from the emergence of new competitors. In particular, major motion picture studios such as Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Twentieth Century Fox, Universal Pictures, The Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros. Entertainment, while AMG’s customers, can perform similar services in-house with substantially greater financial resources than AMG’s, and in some cases significant marketing advantages. These studios may also outsource their requirements to other independent providers like us or to other studios. Other major competitors of AMG include: Thomson, a French corporation, particularly under its Technicolor brand; Kodak, through its Laser Pacific division; Deluxe Entertainment Services; and DG FastChannel, Inc. In addition, there may be new entrants into aspects of the entertainment and media services industry, which may include new media companies, such as Google and Amazon, consulting companies, such as Accenture and Deloitte, and traditional information technology companies, such as IBM and Hewlett-Packard. These companies may become competitors of AMG as well. AMG also actively competes with certain industry participants that have a unique operating niche or specialty business. There is no assurance that AMG will be able to compete effectively against these competitors. AMG’s management believes that important competitive factors include the range of services offered, reputation for quality and innovation, pricing and long-term relationships with customers. Employees Ascent Media, together with its subsidiaries, has approximately 3,100 employees, most of which work on a full-time basis. Approximately 2,150 of the employees are employed in the United States, with the remaining 950 employed outside the United States, principally in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Singapore. Approximately 75 of AMG’s employees belong to either the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees in the United States or the Broadcasting Entertainment Cinematograph and Theatre Union in the United Kingdom. (d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas For financial information related to our geographic areas in which we do business, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements found in Part II of this Annual Report. (e) Available Information All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including our Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and Form 8-Ks, as well as amendments to such filings are available on our Internet website free of charge generally within 24 hours after we file such material with the SEC. Our website address is www.ascentmediacorporation.com. Our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, compensation committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, and audit committee charter are available on our website. In addition, we will provide a copy of any of these documents, free of charge, to any shareholder who calls or 12 Table of Contents submits a request in writing to Investor Relations, Ascent Media Corporation, 520 Broadway, 5th Floor, Santa Monica, CA 90401. Telephone No. (310) 434-7000. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference herein. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report are not the only ones that relate to our businesses or our common stock. The risks described below are considered to be the most material. However, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our businesses. If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Factors Relating to our Business We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. On a combined basis, our subsidiaries incurred losses in three out of the last five fiscal years. In future periods, we may not be able to increase or sustain profitability on a consistent quarterly or annual basis. Failure to maintain profitability in future periods may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have a limited operating history as a separate company upon which you can evaluate our performance. Although our subsidiary AMG was a separate public company prior to June 2003, we have had an operating history as a separate public company only since September 2008. There can be no assurance that our business strategy will be successful on a long-term basis. We may not be able to grow our businesses as planned and may not be profitable. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our results as a separate company. Certain historical financial information included in this Annual Report reflects our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow with respect to time periods during which we were not a stand-alone entity, and may not necessarily reflect what such metrics would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity pursuing independent strategies during the periods presented. The failure of any banking institution in which we deposit our funds or the failure of any such banking institutions to operate in the ordinary course could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Recent conditions in global credit and other financial markets have resulted in significant volatility and disruptions in the availability of credit and in some cases have pressured the solvency or liquidity of some financial institutions. Some of these financial institutions, including banks, have had difficulty providing financial services in the ordinary course and in some cases have failed or otherwise been largely taken over by governments. We and our subsidiaries deposit our cash and cash equivalents with a number of financial institutions around the world. Should some or all of these financial institutions fail or otherwise be unable to operate in the ordinary course, our access to our own funds may be interrupted or delayed. If we are unable to timely access such funds, we may need to seek credit from other banks or financial institutions, to the extent available. No assurances can be given that we would be able to obtain credit in such circumstances on terms acceptable to us, or on any terms. If we are unable to access some or all of our cash on deposit, either temporarily or permanently, or if we required to borrow to meet our working capital needs, or are unable to do so, it could have a negative impact on our operations, including our reported operating results, or our financial position, or both. 13 Table of Contents Disruptions in worldwide credit markets have increased the risk of default by the issuers of instruments in which we invest cash and other financial institutions. Disruptions in the credit and other financial markets have impacted the creditworthiness of certain financial institutions. Although we seek to manage the credit risks associated with our cash and other investments, we are exposed to an increased risk that our counterparties may default on their obligations to us. At December 31, 2008, our total assets included short-term marketable securities of $328 million. Were one or more of our counterparties to fail or otherwise be unable to meet its obligations to us, our financial condition could be adversely affected. An inability to access capital markets at attractive rates could materially increase our expenses. Although we currently have sufficient cash and investments available to meet our currently anticipated capital requirements, we may in the future require access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital expenditures not satisfied by operating cash flows. However, in such event there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or on any terms. If our ability to access required capital were to become significantly constrained, we could incur material interest costs, our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be successful in implementing our acquisition strategy. One focus of our corporate strategy is to seek opportunities to grow free cash flow through strategic acquisitions, which may include leveraged acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate that strategy, and if we are not able to invest our capital in acquisitions that are accretive to free cash flow it could negatively impact the growth of our business. Our ability to consummate such acquisitions may be negatively impacted by various factors, including among other things: • failure to identify attractive acquisition candidates on acceptable terms; • competition from other bidders; • inability to raise any required financing; and • antitrust or other regulatory restrictions, including any requirements that may be imposed by government agencies as a condition to any required regulatory approval. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business strategy includes the future acquisition of businesses that we believe are strategically attractive and that we expect will be accretive to consolidated free cash flow. If we undertake any acquisition, the process of operating such acquired business on a stand-alone basis, or of integrating an acquired business with AMG, may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Future acquisitions could reduce our current stockholders’ ownership percentage, cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. We may incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. We cannot be certain that AMG will be successful in integrating any acquired businesses. AMG’s businesses may grow through acquisitions in selected markets. Integration of new businesses may present significant challenges, including: realizing economies of scale; eliminating duplicative overheads; and integrating networks, financial systems and operational systems. We cannot assure you that, with respect to any acquisition, AMG will realize anticipated benefits or successfully integrate any acquired business with its existing operations. In addition, while AMG intend to implement appropriate controls and procedures as they integrate acquired companies, we may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies’ disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting (as required by United States federal securities laws and regulations) until AMG has fully integrated them. 14 Table of Contents Our businesses are subject to risks of adverse government regulation. The industries in which we operate, and those of our customers, are subject to varying degrees of regulation in the United States by the FCC and other entities and in foreign countries by similar entities. There can be no assurance that our business, either directly or through AMG’s reliance on customers or vendors impacted by such regulations, will not be adversely affected by any future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. A loss of any of AMG’s largest customers would reduce its revenue. Although AMG serviced over 3,000 customers during the year ended December 31, 2008, its ten largest customers accounted for approximately 52% of its consolidated revenue. The ten largest customers of the Content Services group accounted for approximately 60% of the revenue of the Content Services operating segment during the 2008 fiscal year, with one customer accounting for approximately 18% of the group’s revenue. The ten largest customers of the Creative Services group accounted for approximately 46% of the revenue of the Creative Services operating segment during the 2008 fiscal year. The loss of, and failure to replace, any significant portion of the revenue generated from sales to any of AMG’s largest customers could have a material adverse effect on the business of AMG or on the affected operating segment. However, the Creative Services group’s revenue generated by AMG’s largest customers represents various types of services provided by various facilities within the group for multiple points of contact at the corporate customer. Network origination services are generally provided pursuant to contracts with terms of one to three years or longer. AMG’s ten largest customers include, among others, the parent companies of the six major motion picture studios. AMG’s business depends on certain client industries. AMG derives substantially all its revenue from services provided to the motion picture, television and advertising industries. Fundamental changes in the business practices of any of these client industries could cause a material reduction in demand by AMG’s clients for the services offered by AMG. AMG’s business benefits from the volume of motion picture and television content being created and distributed as well as the success or popularity of an individual television show. Accordingly, a decrease in either the supply of, or demand for, original entertainment content would have a material adverse effect on AMG’s results of operations. Because spending for television advertising drives the production of new television programming, as well as the production and deployment of television commercials and the sale of existing content libraries for syndication, a reduction in television advertising spending would adversely affect AMG’s business. Factors that could impact television advertising and the general demand for original entertainment content include the growing use of personal video recorders and video-on-demand services, continued fragmentation of and competition for the attention of television audiences, the proliferation of alternatives to traditional television viewing (including Internet video services) and general economic conditions. Because AMG uses third-party satellite and terrestrial connectivity services to provide certain of its creative and content services, a material disruption to such connectivity services could have a negative impact on AMG’s operations. AMG obtains satellite transponder capacity, fiber-optic capacity and Internet connectivity pursuant to long-term contracts and other arrangements with third-party vendors. Such connectivity services are used in connection with many aspects of AMG’s business, including network origination, teleport services, digital media management, dailies, telecine services, distribution of advertising, syndicated television programming and other content, and various Web-based services and interfaces. Although AMG believes that its arrangements with connectivity suppliers are adequate, disruptions in such services may occur from time to time as a result of technical malfunction, disputes with suppliers, force majeure or other causes. In the event of any such disruption in satellite or terrestrial connectivity services, AMG may incur additional costs to supplement or replace the affected service, and may be required to compensate its own customers for any resulting declines in service levels. 15 Table of Contents A significant labor dispute in AMG’s client industries could have a material adverse effect on its business. An industry-wide strike or other job action by or affecting the Writers Guild, Screen Actors Guild or other major entertainment industry union could reduce the supply of original entertainment content, which would in turn reduce the demand for AMG’s services. An extensive work stoppage would affect feature film production as well as episodic television and commercial production and could have a material adverse effect on the Creative Services group, including the potential loss of key personnel and the possibility that broadcast and cable networks will seek to reduce the proportion of their schedules devoted to scripted programming. On November 5, 2007, the Writers Guild of America, East and West (the “Writers Guild”) declared a strike affecting the script writing for television shows and films. The strike, which lasted until February 12, 2008, had a significant adverse effect on the revenue generated by AMG’s creative services business for services provided on new entertainment projects utilizing scripted content and the production of new television commercials during the 2007-2008 television season. The contract between the Screen Actors Guild and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (“AMPTP”) for theatrical motion picture and television performances expired on June 30, 2008, without agreement on terms for a new contract. The Screen Actors Guild continues to work under the terms of the expired contract. Further, the commercial contracts between the Screen Actors Guild, the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists and the advertising industry for television, radio and internet/new media commercials is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2009. The failure to finalize and ratify a new agreement with the AMPTP or the failure to enter into new commercial contracts upon expiration of the current contracts could lead to a strike or other job action. Any such labor dispute could have an adverse effect on the television and/or motion picture production industries, including AMG’s business, and in the case of a severe or prolonged work stoppage, the adverse effect on AMG’s business, operations, results of operations and/or financial condition could be material. Changes in technology may limit the competitiveness of and demand for AMG’s services. The post-production industry is characterized by technological change, evolving customer needs and emerging technical standards. Historically, AMG has expended significant amounts of capital to obtain equipment using the latest technology. Obtaining access to any new technologies that may be developed in AMG’s industries will require additional capital expenditures, which may be significant and may have to be incurred in advance of any revenue that may be generated by such new technologies. In addition, the use of some technologies may require third party licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Although we believe that AMG will be able to continue to offer services based on the newest technologies, we cannot assure you that AMG will be able to obtain any of these technologies, that AMG will be able to effectively implement these technologies on a cost-effective or timely basis or that such technologies will not render obsolete AMG’s role as a provider of motion picture and television production services. If AMG’s competitors providing content management and delivery services have technology that enables them to provide services that are more reliable, faster, less expensive, reach more customers or have other advantages over the network origination and content distribution services AMG provides, then the demand for AMG’s content management and delivery services may decrease. While AMG believes that its business methods and technical processes do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third parties, there can be no assurances that third parties will not assert infringement claims against AMG. AMG’s business of providing creative services and content management and delivery services is highly dependent upon the technical abilities and knowledge of its personnel and business methods and processes developed by AMG and its subsidiaries and their respective predecessors over time. There can be no assurance that third parties will not bring trade secret, copyright infringement or other proprietary rights claims against AMG, or claim that AMG’s use of certain technologies violates a patent. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of any such claims. However, even if these claims are not meritorious, they could be costly and could divert management’s attention from other more productive activities. If it is determined that AMG has infringed upon or misappropriated a third party’s proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that any necessary license or rights could be obtained on 16 Table of Contents terms satisfactory to AMG, if at all. The inability to obtain any such license or rights could result in the incurrence of expenses and changes in the way AMG operates its business. Loss of key personnel could negatively impact AMG’s business. AMG’s future success depends in large part on the retention, continued service and specific abilities of its key creative, technical and management personnel. A significant percentage of our revenue can be attributed to services that can only be performed by certain highly compensated, specialized employees, and in certain instances, our customers have identified by name those personnel requested to work on such customers’ projects. Competition for highly qualified employees in the entertainment and media services industry is intense and the process of locating and recruiting key creative, technical and management personnel with the combination of skills and abilities required to execute AMG’s strategy is time-consuming. AMG has employment agreements with many of its key creative, technical and management personnel. However, there can be no assurance that AMG will continue to attract, motivate and retain key personnel, and any inability to do so could negatively impact our business and our ability to grow. Risk of loss from earthquakes or other catastrophic events could disrupt AMG’s business. Some of AMG’s purpose-built facilities are located in Southern California, a region known for seismic activity. Due to the extensive amount of specialized equipment incorporated into specially designed editorial suites, digital intermediates suites and theaters, and other post-production facilities, as well as teleports, AMG’s operations in this region may not be able to be temporarily relocated to mitigate the impacts of a catastrophic event. AMG carries insurance for property loss and business interruption resulting from such events, including earthquake insurance, subject to deductibles, and for certain operations has facilities in other geographic locations. Although we believe AMG has adequate insurance coverage relating to damage to its property and the temporary disruption of its business from casualties, and that it could provide services at other geographic locations, there can be no assurance that such insurance and other facilities would be sufficient to cover all of AMG’s costs or damages or AMG’s loss of income resulting from its inability to provide services in Southern California for an extended period of time. Failure to obtain renewal of FCC licenses could disrupt AMG’s business. AMG holds licenses, authorizations and registrations from the FCC required for the conduct of its content services business, including earth station and various classes of wireless licenses and an authorization to provide certain services. Many of the FCC licenses held by AMG are for transmit/receive earth stations, which cannot be operated without individual licenses. The licenses for these stations are granted for a period of fifteen years and, while the FCC generally renews licenses for satellite earth stations routinely, there can be no assurance that AMG’s licenses will be renewed at their expiration dates. Registration with the FCC, rather than licensing, is required for receiving transmissions from satellites from points within the United States. AMG relies on third party licenses or authorizations when it transmits domestic satellite traffic through earth stations operated by third parties. Our failure, and the failure of third parties, to obtain renewals of such FCC licenses could disrupt the content services segment of AMG and have a material adverse effect on AMG. The FCC generally grants wireless licenses for ten year terms and regulates the technical standards governing wireless licenses. Failure to comply with the FCC’s wireless license regulations may cause the FCC to impose fines and forfeitures on a licensee. Further material changes in the law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that our businesses will not be adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation, deregulation or court decisions. AMG operates in an increasingly competitive market, and there is a risk that it may not be able to compete effectively with other providers in the future. The entertainment and media services industries in which AMG competes are highly competitive and service-oriented, and the network origination and data transmission industries are currently saturated with companies providing services similar to AMG’s. AMG has few long-term or exclusive service agreements with its creative services customers. Business generation in these markets is based primarily on the reputation of the provider’s creative talent and customer satisfaction with reliability, timeliness, quality and price. The major motion picture studios, which are AMG’s customers, such as Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Twentieth Century 17 Table of Contents Fox, Universal Pictures, The Walt Disney Company and Warner Bros. Entertainment, have the capability to perform similar services in-house. These studios also have substantially greater financial resources than AMG’s, and in some cases significant marketing advantages. Thus, depending on the in-house capacity available to some of these studios, a studio may be not only a customer but also a competitor. There are also numerous independent providers of services similar to AMG’s and we actively compete with certain industry participants that have a unique operating niche or specialty business. If there were a significant decline in the number of motion pictures or the amount of original television programming produced, or if the studios or AMG’s other clients either established in-house post-production facilities or significantly expanded their in-house capabilities, AMG’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may have substantial indemnification obligations under certain inter-company agreements we entered into in connection with the spin-off. Pursuant to our tax sharing agreement with DHC, we have agreed to be responsible for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). We have also agreed to be responsible for and indemnify DHC with respect to (i) certain taxes attributable to DHC or any of its subsidiaries (other than Discovery Communications, LLC) and (ii) all taxes arising as a result of the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). Our indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Pursuant to the reorganization agreement we entered into with DHC in connection with the spin-off, we assumed certain indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all non-tax liabilities that may exist relating to the business of AMG, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as certain obligations of DHC. Any indemnification payments under the tax sharing agreement or the reorganization agreement could be substantial. We cannot predict or quantify the impact weakening economic conditions in the United States and abroad may have on the media and entertainment industries or the demand for our services. The media and entertainment industries, as well as our business and earnings, are affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad, and the current downturn of such conditions could adversely affect demand for our products and services. Adverse economic conditions, such as high unemployment rates, fluctuations in debt and equity markets, poor credit availability, high cost of capital and declining investor confidence, may cause a significant reduction in consumer entertainment spending, media production levels, advertising spending, capital expenditures for systems integration projects, and media outsourcing demands, which would in turn materially impair our business and earnings. There can be no assurance as to the effectiveness of any legislative or other act or initiative of any federal or state governmental authority designed to respond to the ongoing financial crisis and economic downturn. Accordingly, our ability to increase or maintain revenue and earnings could be adversely affected to the extent that relevant economic environments remain weak or decline further. We are unable to predict the extent of any of these potential adverse effects. Piracy of elements may harm our business. AMG’s customers rely on it to process, complete and deliver filmed, video and digital footage for motion pictures, television programming, commercials and other proprietary content prior to public release and to archive, manage and distribute copyrighted media elements. Any failure or inability to protect the intellectual property rights of AMG’s clients from piracy, counterfeiting or other unauthorized use could negatively affect AMG’s business. Although AMG believes its security policies and procedures are adequate, there can be no assurances that AMG will not experience liability losses arising from piracy claims in the future and any such claims may have a negative impact on AMG’s reputation and our sales. 18 Table of Contents Factors Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market We cannot be certain that an active trading market will be sustained, and our stock price may fluctuate significantly. We cannot assure you that an active trading market will be sustained for our common stock, nor can we predict the prices at which either series of our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; and • domestic and foreign economic conditions. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the United States securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures; our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent auditors will be required to issue an attestation regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will first be tested in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex, subject to change, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal control, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • authorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share and a Series C that, except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights; • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors; • limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; • prohibiting shareholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring shareholder action to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; 19 Table of Contents • requiring shareholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation; • requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B common stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B common stock would be diluted by, for example, issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and • the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. In addition, John C. Malone, our largest shareholder, beneficially owns shares of our common stock that represent 31% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding common stock. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan in order to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan is designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of our company, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of our company. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors or officers has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our shareholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common shareholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of shareholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law referred to above, you may not be able to challenge these decisions if a majority of our board of directors is disinterested, independent and adequately informed with respect to their decisions and acts in good faith, and in the honest belief that it is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders. Our Series B common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which is often characterized by volatility and illiquidity. The OTC Bulletin Board tends to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations, and market conditions. The potential for illiquidity and volatility with respect to our Series B common stock may also be adversely affected by (i) the relatively small number of shares of our Series B common stock held by persons other than our officers, directors and persons who hold in excess of 10% of the Series B common stock outstanding, (ii) the relatively small number of such unaffiliated shareholders, and (iii) the low trading volume of such shares on the OTC Bulletin Board. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 