Risk Factors” and the risks set out below, any of which may cause our or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements are made based on management’s beliefs, estimates and opinions on the date the statements are made and we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements if these beliefs, estimates and opinions or other circumstances should change. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are stated in United States dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States dollars and all references to "common stock" refer to the common shares in our capital stock. As used in this annual report, the terms "we", "us", "our", and "Mobilis" mean Mobilis Relocation Services Inc.., unless the context clearly requires otherwise. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Mobilis Relocation Services Inc. (“Mobilis” or the “Company”) was incorporated in Nevada on November 19, 2007, with a mission of becoming a leading resource for an individual or family’s relocation / moving needs. It aims to offer a high value service – a tailored and complete relocation report that combines a vast array of current information, contacts, links and other information regarding all aspects of a move, at a low cost. It will initially begin by offering a purely online presence, and will fill a gap in the market for the following reasons. w “Traditional” relocation specialists invariably involve a labor intensive process, whereby individuals provide a personalized service which tends to be either high cost or bundled with other high cost services. w Simple books and guides on relocating normally do not offer detailed, current, or the most relevant information tailored to an individual’s particular circumstances. w Current online offerings are invariably aligned with or are simple extensions of one or more service providers (i.e. owned by a moving or real estate company) and are geared toward steering consumers to purchase particular services (i.e. “call for a quote” or fill in a form and someone will call you). 3 The basic problem is that high value services are costly and today’s online offerings are really just simple conduits for other services. It is the goal of Mobilis to combine the best features of the above approaches and provide consumers with a best of breed solution – not only with the most information, but also with highly detailed and relevant information. Because the process will be automated and online, this can be provided at a fraction of the cost of current high value offerings. This service will appeal to consumers for several reasons: w It will offer consumers the ability to specify in detail exactly what kind of information they need. w The site will tell them exactly what information is available concerning all the areas they want information on. There will be no guesswork – for example how many moving contacts there are in the database of the relevant area(s), whether there is detailed information concerning costing options, what types of merchant “coupons” are available in the package, what type of information is available on the new area (i.e. housing market studies, etc.). w Fees charged, although low, will be tailored toward the value of the package (i.e. for packages with more information, Mobilis may have higher prices). The critical difference between Mobilis and virtually every other service available in the marketplace today will be that Mobilis will be providing objective, detailed, relevant information whereas other providers are an attempt to sell particular moving service(s). Revenues will be derived from several sources: w Fees to consumers, w Advertising from relevant, reputable businesses – management of Mobilis believes that there are virtually limitless possibilities in this area due to the vast number of businesses and services that may be involved in a relocation (i.e. real estate related, retail stores, moving & storage / truck rental, accommodation, cleaning / packing, renovation / repair, professional services, etc.). Since the inception of Mobilis Relocation Services Inc. we have been working towards the launch of our website that we will use to generate revenues. We have no revenues, have achieved losses since inception, have been issued a going concern opinion by our auditors and rely upon the sale of our securities to fund operations. Accordingly, we will be dependent on future additional financing in order to maintain our operations. Competition We conduct our business in an environment that is highly competitive and unpredictable. Many of our competitors are national or international companies with far greater resources, capital and access to information than us. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on the development of their websites This competition could result in our competitors having services of greater quality and attracting prospective investors to finance the development of their services on more favorable terms. As a result of this competition, we may become involved in an acquisition with more risk or obtain financing on less favorable terms. Employees Currently our only employee is our sole director and officer. We do not expect any material changes in the number of employees over the next 12 month period. We anticipate that we will be conducting most of our business through agreements with consultants and third parties. Our sole officer does not have an employment agreement with us. 4 Subsidiaries We do not have any subsidiaries. Intellectual Property We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any patent or trademark. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our common shares are considered speculative. Prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set out below. Risks Related To Our Financial Condition and Business Model If we do not obtain additional financing, we will not be able to conduct our business operations to the extent that we become profitable Our current operating funds will cover the initial stages of our business plan; however, we currently do not have any operations and we have no income. Because of this and the fact that we will incur significant legal and accounting costs necessary to maintain a public corporation, we will require additional financing to complete our development activities. We currently do not have any arrangements for financing and we may not be able to obtain financing when required. We believe the only source of funds that would be realistic is through a loan from our president and the sale of equity capital. Our Independent Auditor has indicated that he has substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern John Kinross-Kennedy, C.P.A., our independent auditor, has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern given our lack of operating history and the fact to date have had no revenues. Potential investors should be aware that there are difficulties associated with being a new venture, and the high rate of failure associated with this fact. Because we anticipate our operating expenses will increase prior to our earning revenues, we may never achieve profitability Prior to completion of our development stage, we anticipate that we will incur increased operating expenses without realizing any revenues. We therefore expect to incur significant losses into the foreseeable future. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues from our business development, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful, and we may not be able to generate any revenues or ever achieve profitability. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our business will most likely fail. Because our president has only agreed to provide his services on a part-time basis, he may not be able or willing to devote a sufficient amount of time to our business operations, causing our business to fail Because we are in the development stage of our business, Mr. Zenith will not be spending a significant amount of time on our business. Mr. Zenith expects to expend approximately 15 hours per week on our business. Competing demands on Mr. Zenith's time may lead to a divergence between his interests and the interests of other shareholders. Mr. Zenith is the founder of a real estate investment management company where he focuses the majority of his time, and none of the work he will be undertaking will directly compete with Mobilis Relocation Services Inc. 5 Because our president owns approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock, investors may find that corporate decisions influenced by Mr. Zenith are inconsistent with the best interests of other stockholders Mr. Zenith is our president and sole director. He owns approximately 44% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of the date of this prospectus. Accordingly, he will have a significant influence in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions or other matters, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. While we have no current plans with regard to any merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of its assets, the interests of Mr. Zenith may still differ from the interests of other stockholders. Mr. Zenith owns 1,500,000 common shares for which he paid $0.01 per share. Because our President and sole director is a Canadian Resident, difficulty may arise in attempting to effect service or process on him in Canada Because Mr. Zenith our sole director and officer, is a Canadian resident, difficulty may arise in attempting to effect service or process on him in Canada or in enforcing a judgment against Mobilis Relocation Services, Inc.’s assets located outside of the United States. The success of our business depends on the continued use and growth of the Internet as a commerce platform The existence and growth of our service depends on the continued acceptance of the Internet as a commerce platform for individuals and enterprises. The internet could possibly lose its viability as a tool to pay for online services by the adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease-of-use, accessibility and quality of service. The acceptance and performance of the Internet has been harmed by “viruses,” “worms,” and “spy-ware”. If for some reason the Internet was no longer widely accepted as a tool to pay for online services, the demand for our service would be significantly reduced, which would harm or cause our business to fail. Because we will rely on a third-party for hosting and maintenance of our website, mismanagement or service interruptions could significantly harm our business Our website will be hosted and maintained by a third party hosting service. Any mismanagement, service interruptions, or damage to the data of our company or our customers, could result in the loss of customers, or other harm to our business. Because we face significant competition our business may fail Many of our competitors have long operating histories, greater financial, technical, and marketing resources. Because we face significant competition from other companies offering similar services, the current and possible increase in competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Evolving regulation of the Internet may adversely affect us As Internet commerce continues to evolve there may be increased regulation by federal, state and/or foreign agencies. Any new regulations which restrict our business could harm or cause our business to fail. 6 Risks Related to our Common Stock We have not paid any dividends and do not foresee paying dividends in the future Payments of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon future earnings, our capital requirements, financial condition and other relevant factors. We have no plan to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. Our stock is a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations and the FINRA’s sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock Our stock is a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the National Association of Securities Dealers believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The National Association of Securities Dealers’ requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. ITEM 