Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business We have a limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be made. We may never achieve profitability. We were organized on January 8, 2008, and have had only limited operations since our inception upon which to evaluate our business prospects. As a result, investors do not have access to the same type of information in assessing their proposed investment as would be available to purchasers in a company with a history of prior operations. Although the technology for solar cells we are commercializing has been developed by the licensing company under federal funding over the last nine years, we face all the risks inherent in a new business, including the expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with conducting operations, including capital requirements and management’s potential underestimation of initial and ongoing costs. We also face the risk that we may not be able to effectively im plement our business plan. If we are not effective in addressing these risks, we will not operate profitably and we may not have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they become due. 5 We will need significant additional capital, which we may be unable to obtain. We have very limited funds. Our ultimate success may depend upon our ability to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects and debt or equity financings. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recog nize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the renewable energy industry, and the possibility that we may not be profitable during the early years due to spending on the process development for our technology, which could impact the availability or cost of future financings. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. If our strategy is unsuccessful, we will not be profitable and our stockholders could lose their investment. There is no guarantee that our strategy will be successful or profitable. If our strategy is unsuccessful, we may fail to meet our objectives and not realize the revenues or profits from the business we pursue, which may cause the value of the Company to decrease, thereby potentially causing our stockholders to lose their investment. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth, which would negatively impact our operations. If our business and markets grow and develop it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in managing expansion of manufacturing operations to meet projected demand. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause administrative inefficiencies. We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management, especially Dr. Ashok K. Sood, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Yash R. Puri, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of either Dr. Sood or Dr. Puri, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and motivate our executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. Although we have employment contracts with Dr. Sood and Dr. Puri, if either left us, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successo r obtains the necessary training and experience. We may be unable to complete our development, manufacturing and commercialization plans, and the failure to do so will significantly harm our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Commercializing our planned solar modules and processes depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to: · further product and manufacturing process development; · development of certain critical tools and large scale production capabilities; · completion, refinement and management of our supply chain; · completion, refinement, and management of our distribution channels; · demonstration of efficiencies that will make our products attractively priced; and · developing an adequate sales force and sales channels necessary to distribute our products and achieve our desired revenue goals. 6 We do not have any history in carrying out any of the foregoing tasks although the management team has experience in managing these factors in other companies, and, as such, we cannot assure investors that the strategies we intend to employ will enable us to support the large-scale manufacturing of commercially desirable solar modules. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. Our strategy envisions a period of potentially rapid growth. We currently maintain nominal administrative and personnel capacity due to the startup nature of our business, and our expected growth may impose a significant burden on our future planned administrative and operational resources. The growth of our business may require significant investments of capital and increased demands on our management, workforce and facilities. We will be required to substantially expand our administrative and operational resources and attract, train, manage and retain qualified management and other personnel. Failure to do so or satisfy such increased demands would interrupt or would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products have never been sold on a mass market commercial basis, and we do not know whether they will be accepted by the market. According to the International Energy Agency, global production of electricity was about 20,260 terawatt hours in 2008 of which less than 1 percent came from solar photovoltaic sources. Even with many advances in the solar photovoltaic technology, adoption of solar photovoltaic power technology by energy users remains low and the total solar electricity production capacity remains well below one percent of the world consumption of electricity. Thus, the solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If our products are not accepted by the market, our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Moreover, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. The development of a successful market for our proposed products and our ability to sell our products at a lower price per watt may be affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: · failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against other solar power products on the basis of cost, quality and performance; · competition from conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind energy; · failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with suppliers, distributors and strategic partners; and · customer acceptance of our products. If our proposed products fail to gain sufficient market acceptance, our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We could become involved in intellectual property disputes that create a drain on our resources and could ultimately impair our assets. We rely on our own proprietary technology for solar cells, trade secrets, and our industry expertise and knowhow for our product. We do not knowingly infringe on patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties; however, in the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to defend a claim, develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even if without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use or installation of our products results in injury or damage, and we have limited insurance coverage to protect against such claims. Since our products are electricity-producing devices, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by our products, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. As a planned manufacturer of products that will be used by consumers, we will face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims or class action suits in the event that the use of the solar power products we sell or install results in injury or damage. We are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, to the extent that a claim is brought against us we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could r esult in potentially significant monetary damages which could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results. 7 Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Our end products have no toxic materials. However, we use chemicals in the manufacturing process that are widely used by the semiconductor and other industries in producing our finished product. Therefore, we are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of, or human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, and occupational health and safety. We are also subject to environmental laws that allow regulatory authorities to compel, or seek reimbursement for, cleanup of environmental contamination at sites now or formerly owned or operated by us and at facilities where our waste is or has been dispo sed. We may incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or other costs. Also, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions or non-compliance may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of international, national, state and local attention. Although fixture regulations could potentially lead to an increased use of alternative energy, there can be no guarantee that s uch future regulations will encourage solar technology. Given our limited history of operations, it is difficult to predict future environmental expenses. Risks Relating to Our Industry The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net sales and harm our operating results. The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar electricity could result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and non-solar renewable sources of energy, which would negatively affect the growth of the solar energy industry overall and our net sales specifically. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar energy is used to supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the utility network, depends significantly on the availability and size of government and economic incentives. Currently the cost of solar electricity substantially exceeds the retail price of electricity in every significant market in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries have provid ed subsidies in the form of tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and manufacturers of photovoltaic products. Many of these government incentives could expire, phase-out over time, exhaust the allocated funding or require renewal by the applicable authority. Even though the price of electricity from conventional sources continues to rise, a reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar electricity could result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy, which would in turn hurt our sales and financial condition. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency, higher power output and lower price. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. A variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected for our solar power products. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others, and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues would not significantly increase and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The global solar electricity production capacity remains well below one percent of the world consumption of electricity. Thus, the market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: 8 · cost-effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; · performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; · success of alternative distributed generation technologies such as fuel cells, wind power and micro turbines; · fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; · capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease when the United States or global economy slows; · continued deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and · availability of government subsidies and incentives. We face intense competition, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. We operate in a competitive environment that is characterized by price fluctuation and technological change. We compete with major international and domestic companies. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater market recognition and customer bases, longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, purchasing, manufacturing, personnel and other resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of solar and solar-related products than we can. font> Our business plan relies on sales of our solar power products and our competitors with more diversified product offerings may be better positioned to withstand a decline in the demand for solar power products. Some of our competitors own, partner with, have longer term or stronger relationships with solar cell providers that could result in them being able to obtain solar cells on a more favorable basis than us. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We may be vulnerable to the efforts of electric utility companies lobbying to protect their revenue streams and from competition from solar power systems. Electric utility companies could lobby for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their current revenue streams. Any adverse changes to the regulations and policies of the solar energy industry could deter end-user purchases of solar power products and investment in the research and development of solar power technology. In addition, electricity generated by solar power systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Even though new conventional power plants to meet peak hour electricity demand may require lengthy permitting and construction process, utilities could modify their peak hour pricing policies to such as flat rate pricing. This would require solar power systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of e lectricity. Any changes to government regulations or utility policies that favor electric utility companies could reduce our competitiveness and cause a significant reduction in demand for our products. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar alternative energy sources may negatively impact our profitability. There is a general global awareness to reduce emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that harm the environment which is driving the demand for renewable sources of energy. In spite of that, we believe that a customer’s decision to purchase or install solar power capabilities is primarily driven by the cost of electricity from other sources and their anticipated return on investment resulting from solar power systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Changes in utility electric rates or net metering policies could also have a negative effect on o ur business. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations concerning the electrical utility industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies and regulations promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the U.S. and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of; or further investment in the research and development of; alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, uti lity companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electric gild or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 9 We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national, state and local laws and ordinances relating to building codes, safely, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. There is also a burden in having to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Risks Relating to our Organization and our Common Stock As a result of the Merger, Magnolia Solar became a subsidiary of ours and since we are subject to the reporting requirements of federal securities laws, this can be expensive and may divert resources from other projects, thus impairing its ability grow. As a result of the Merger, Magnolia Solar became a subsidiary of ours and, accordingly, is subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). The costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC (including reporting of the Merger) and furnishing audited reports to stockholders will cause our expenses to be higher than they would have been if Magnolia Solar had remained privately held and did not consummate the Merger. In addition, we will incur substantial expenses in connection with the preparation of the registration statement and related documents requir ed under the terms of the Private Placement that require us to register the shares of common stock included in the units and the Warrant Shares. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, then we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications required by such act, which may preclude us from keeping our filings with the SEC current and interfere with the ability of investors to trade our securities and for our shares to continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or to list on any national securities exchange. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or to prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our reputation and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. As a result, our small size and any current internal control deficiencies may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and access to capital. We have not performed an in-depth analysis to determine if historical un-discovered failures of internal controls exist, and may in the future discover areas of our internal control that need improvement. Public company compliance may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. As a public company, we expect these rules and regulations to increase our compliance costs in 2010 and beyond and to make certain activities more time consuming and costly. As a public company, we also expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, and to maintain insurance at reasonable rates, or at all. Because we became public by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There may be risks associated with us becoming public through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will, in the future, want to conduct any offerings on behalf of our post-Merger company. 10 Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · changes in our industry; · competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to obtain working capital financing; · additions or departures of key personnel; · limited “public float” following the Merger, in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; · sales of our common stock (particularly following effectiveness of the resale registration statement required to be filed in connection with the Private Placement); · our ability to execute our business plan; · operating results that fall below expectations; · loss of any strategic relationship; · regulatory developments; · economic and other external factors; · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and · inability to develop or acquire new or needed technology. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and the price may not reflect our value and there can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, only a small percentage of our common stock is available to be traded and is held by a small number of holders and the price, if traded, may not reflect our actual or perceived value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. The market liquidity will be dependent on the perception of our operating business, among other things. We will take certain steps including utilizing investor awareness campaigns, press releases, road shows and conferences to increase awareness of our business and any steps that we might take to bring us to the awareness of investors may require we compensate consultants with cash and/or stock. There can be no assurance that there will be any awareness generated or the results of any efforts will result in any impact on our trading volume. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business and trading may be at an inflated price relative to the performance of our company due to, among other things, availability of sellers of our shares. If a market should develop, the price may be highly volatile. Because there may be a low price for our shares of common stock, many brokerage firms or clearing firms may not be willing to effect transactions in the securities or accept our shares for deposit in an account. Even if an investor finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in the shares of our common stock, the combination of brokerage commissions, transfer fees, taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of low priced shares of common stock as collateral for any loans. We anticipate having our common stock continue to be quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, however, we cannot be sure that such quotations will continue. As soon as is practicable, we anticipate applying for listing of our common stock on either the NYSE Amex, The NASDAQ Capital Market or other national securities exchange, assuming that we can satisfy the initial listing standards for such exchange. We currently do not satisfy the initial listing standards, and cannot ensure that we will be able to satisfy such listing standards or that our common stock will be accepted for listing on any such exchange. Should we fail to satisfy the initial listing standards of such exchanges, or our common stock is otherwise rejected for listing and remain listed on the OTC Bulletin Board or suspended from the OTC Bulletin Board, the trading price of our common stock could suffer and the trading market for our common stock may be less liquid and our common stock price may be subject to increased volatility. Furthermore, for companies whose securities are traded in the OTC Bulletin Board, it is more difficult (1) to obtain accurate quotations, (2) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services generally do not publish press releases about such companies, and (3) to obtain needed capital. 11 Our common stock may be deemed a “penny stock,” which would make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other national securities exchange and trades at less than $4.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have tangible net worth of at least $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disc losure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued in the Private Placement upon the effectiveness of the registration statement required to be filed, or upon the expiration of any statutory holding period, under Rule 144, or upon expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonabl e or appropriate. In addition, the shares of common stock underlying the notes and warrants sold in the private placement will be freely tradable upon the earlier of: (i) effectiveness of a registration statement covering such shares and (ii) the date on which such shares may be sold without registration pursuant to Rule 144 (or other applicable exemption) under the Securities Act. Because our directors and executive officers are among our largest stockholders, they can exert significant control over our business and affairs and have actual or potential interests that may depart from those of our other stockholders. Our directors and executive officers will own or control a significant percentage of the common stock following the Merger and completion of the Private Placement. Additionally, the holdings of our directors and executive officers may increase in the future upon vesting or other maturation of exercise rights under any of the options or warrants they may hold or in the future be granted or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of our common stock. Following the Merger, our current officers and directors own an aggregate of 16,200,000 shares of our common stock or a total of approximately 67.76% of the voting power of all our outstanding shares of stock. The interests of such persons may differ from the interests of our other stockholders, including purchasers of units in the Private Placement. As a result, in addition to their bo ard seats and offices, such persons will have significant influence over and control all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how the Company’s other stockholders, including purchasers in the Private Placement, may vote, including the following actions: · to elect or defeat the election of our directors; · to amend or prevent amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws; · to effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and · to control the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for vote. In addition, such persons’ stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Exercise of options and warrants may have a dilutive effect on our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise of any warrants, options, or any other convertible securities is in excess of the various exercise or conversion prices of such convertible securities, exercise or conversion of such convertible securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had (i) outstanding warrants to purchase 2,660,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.25 per share, (ii) outstanding placement agent warrants to purchase 725,300 shares of our common stock (512,000 of which were issued in connection with the Private Placement and 213,300 of which were issued in connection with the engagement of the placement agent) at an exercise price of $1.05 per share, and (iii) outstanding notes which are convertible into an aggregate of 2,660,000 sha res of our common stock at a conversion price of $1.00 per share. Further, any additional financing that we secure may require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and which result in additional dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common stockholders. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 