Risk Factors Risks associated with our business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. 4 We are a “blank check” company with no operating results to date other than completing our Initial Public Offering. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives, which is to acquire one or more assets or operating businesses in the marine transportation and logistics industries. We have not conducted any discussions and we have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective acquisition candidates. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, a business combination will occur. Since we are a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to certain Securities and Exchange Commision, or SEC, regulations that companies incorporated in the United States would be subject to. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended, or the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. In particular, because we are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act relating to proxy statements, at the time we seek approval from our stockholders of our initial business combination, we do not expect to file preliminary proxy solicitation materials regarding our initial business combination with the SEC and, accordingly, such materials will not be reviewed by the SEC. However, we will file with the SEC any final proxy solicitation materials that we deliver to our stockholders. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since both the net proceeds of $250.8 million from our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, are intended to be used to consummate a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5.0 million, we have to file a Report of Foreign Private Issuer on Form 20-F with the SEC, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating all facts that have taken place through December 31, 2009. We are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies including Rule 419 under the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, or the Securities Act. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, which include (1) entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited in the Trust Account, (2) the requirement to complete a business combination within 18 months after the effective date of the registration statement (and the resulting shorter time frame that funds may be held in a trust account established in connection with the completion of an initial public offering, as compared to the up to 24 or 36 months funds may be held in the Trust Account, (3) the restriction on the release and use of interest earned on the funds held in a Trust Account, (4) the prohibition against trading our securities prior to the consummation of a business combination, and (5) the ability of warrant holders to exercise their warrants prior to the consummation of the business combination. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units are tradable, we are entitled to withdraw a certain amount of interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account prior to the completion of a business combination, we have a longer period of time to consummate a business combination and potentially hold the proceeds of the offering in the Trust Account and our warrant holders may not exercise their warrants until after our initial business combination. Unlike many other blank check companies, we allow up to approximately 39.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. When we seek stockholder approval of an extension of our corporate existence from 24 to 36 months, if any, and our initial business combination, we will offer each public stockholder other than our initial stockholders the right to have their shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the extended period or business combination, as the case may 5 be, and such proposal is approved and, in the case of the business combination, it is also consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise their conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the Trust Account. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination; and (ii) public stockholders owning 40% or more, of the shares sold in our Initial Public Offering do not vote against an extended period, if any, or the business combination and exercise their conversion rights, provided that a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other “group” (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our Initial Public Offering. We have set the conversion percentage at 40% and limited the percentage of shares that a public stockholder, together with any of their affiliates or other persons with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities can convert in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from having an extended period or consummating an initial business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. However, this may have the effect of making it easier for us to have an extended period or an initial business combination approved over a stockholder dissent. Most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of between 20% and 30% and do not have a comparable 10% limitation, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business despite significant stockholder dissent and which you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. We require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising conversion rights. We require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to physically tender their stock certificates to our transfer agent prior to the stockholder meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using DTC’s DWAC system. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical stock certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. If it takes longer than we anticipate to obtain a physical stock certificate, public stockholders who wish to tender their stock certificates physically may be unable to obtain physical stock certificates by the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus will be unable to convert their shares. Public stockholders, together with any of their affiliates or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group” (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from seeking conversion rights for more than 10% of the shares sold in the offering. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination or the extended period, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our initial stockholders) the right to have their shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public stockholder, together with any of their affiliates or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group” will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in the offering. Accordingly, if you purchased more than 10% of the shares sold in the offering, vote all of your shares against a proposed business combination or the extended period and such proposed business combination or the extended period, as applicable, is approved, you will not be able to seek conversion rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following a business combination or that the market price of the common stock will exceed the per-share conversion price. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait the full 24 months (or up to 36-months if the extended period is approved) before receiving liquidating distributions. We have 24 months from the completion of our Initial Public Offering (or up to 36 months if the extended period is approved) in which to consummate a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidating distributions if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. The consummation of the business combination is subject to, among other things, execution of a definitive agreement and required stockholder approval. There can be no assurance that a business combination will be 6 consummated. However, if we anticipate that we will not be able to consummate a business combination by July 1, 2010, we may seek shareholder approval to extend the period of time to consummate a business combination until July 10, 2011. If we are unable to complete the business combination by July 1, 2010, or July 1, 2011 if extension period approved, our purposes and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. Also contained in our articles of association is the requirement that our board of directors, to the fullest extent permitted by law, consider a resolution to dissolve our company at that time. Consistent with such obligations, our board of directors will seek shareholder approval for any such plan of distribution, and our pre-initial public offering shareholders and directors have agreed to vote in favor of such dissolution and liquidation. This provision will be amended only in connection with, and upon consummation of, its initial business combination by such date. The accompanying financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if weis unable to continue as a going concern and is required to liquidate. Unlike other blank check companies, we are permitted, pursuant to our amended and restated articles of incorporation, to seek to extend the date before which we must consummate an initial business combination to up to 36 months from the completion of our Initial Public Offering. As a result, the funds may be held in the Trust Account for at least three years. Unlike some other blank check companies, if we have entered into a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement within 24 months following the completion of our Initial Public Offering, we may seek to extend the date before which we must consummate our initial business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, beyond the more typical 24 months to up to 36 months by calling a special meeting of our stockholders for the purpose of soliciting their approval for such extended period. We believe that an extension could be necessary due to the circumstances involved in the evaluation and consummation of a business combination. If the extended period is approved by our stockholders, we will have an additional 12 months in which to consummate our initial business combination. As a result, we would be able to hold the funds of investors in the Trust Account for more than three years and thus delay the receipt by such investors of the funds from the Trust Account. If third parties bring claims against us, the funds held in the Trust Account could be reduced and the amount receivable by our public stockholders from the Trust Account as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation could be less than approximately $9.91 per share. The funds currently held in the Trust Account may not be protected from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all significant vendors and service providers and all prospective target businesses waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of our public stockholders, they would not be prevented from bringing claims against the Trust Account including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the Trust Account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and due to claims of such creditors, the per share liquidation price could be less than the approximately $9.91 per share. If we are unable to consummate a business combination and are forced to liquidate, Navios Holdings has agreed that it will be liable to ensure that the proceeds in the Trust Account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, except (i) as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the Trust Account, to the extent such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid or unenforceable, (ii) as to any engagement of, or agreement with, a third party that does not execute a waiver and Navios Holdings has not consented to such engagement or contract with such third party, and (iii) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of the offering against certain liabilities under the Securities Act. Additionally, in the case of a vendor, service provider or prospective target business that did not execute a waiver, Navios Holdings will be liable to the extent it consents to the transaction, only to the extent necessary to ensure that public stockholders receive no less than approximately $9.91 per share upon liquidation. Based on our review of the financial statements of Navios Holdings in its most recent Form 20-F, we believe that Navios Holdings will have sufficient funds to meet any indemnification obligations that arise. However, because Navios Holdings’ circumstances may change in the future, we cannot assure investors that Navios Holdings will be able to satisfy such indemnification obligations if and when they arise. We will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses, as well as other entities, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the Trust Account. If Navios Holdings refused to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we would be required to bring a claim against it to enforce our indemnification rights. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the funds held in our Trust Account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the Trust Account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. An involuntary bankruptcy proceeding cannot be filed in the United States since the trust funds will not be maintained within the United States. Because we have no assets in the United States and are organized in the Marshall Islands, any bankruptcy claim would have to be initiated elsewhere. The Marshall Islands has no bankruptcy act. It does have a little-used device pursuant to which, at the request of a judgment creditor, a court can appoint a receiver either to 7 run or wind up the affairs of a corporation. A court can also appoint a trustee if the corporation files for dissolution to wind up the affairs. Finally, it would be possible for a Marshall Islands court to apply the law of any jurisdiction with laws similar to that of the Marshall Islands, such as those of the United States. Because a majority of our directors and all of our officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce their legal rights against such individuals or such assets. A majority of our directors and our officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination substantially all of our assets may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities of, or criminal penalties against, our directors and officers under the U.S. federal securities laws. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination, and our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Such liability could extend indefinitely because we do not intend to comply with the liquidation procedures set forth in Section 106 of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that we will continue in existence only until 24 months from the completion of our Initial Public Offering (or up to 36 months if the extended period is approved). If we have not consummated a business combination by such date, and amended this provision in connection thereto, pursuant to the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (the “Business Corporations Act”), our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Marshall Islands law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution. If we complied with the procedures set forth in Section 106 of the Business Corporations Act, which are intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a six-month notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of a stockholder with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the period set forth in such notice. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and we do not intend to comply with the six-month notice period (which would result in our executive officers being liable for claims for which we did not provide). As such, to the extent our executive officers cannot cover such liabilities, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the Trust Account to our public stockholders promptly after July 1, 2010 (or July 1, 2011 if the extended period is approved), this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the Trust Account prior to addressing the claims of creditors and/or complying with certain provisions of the Business Corporations Act with respect to our dissolution and liquidation. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants included in the units sold in our Initial Public Offering at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as part of our units sold in our Initial Public Offering at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $13.75 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption, provided, however, a current registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders: (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so; (ii) to sell the warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants; or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price that, at the 8 time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. We may not redeem any warrant if it is not exercisable. If we are required to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination, our public stockholders could receive less than approximately $9.91 per share (as of December 31, 2009, the underwriters had exercised their over-allotment option in full with the Initial Public Offering and there are 10,119,999 shares at a redemption value of $9.91 per share) upon distribution of the funds held in the Trust Account and our warrants will expire with no value. If we are unable to consummate a business combination and are required to dissolve and liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation amount could be less than approximately $9.91 share (as of December 31, 2009, the underwriters had exercised their over-allotment option in full with the Initial Public Offering and there are 10,119,999 shares at a redemption value of $9.91 per share) because of the expenses related to the offering, our general and administrative expenses, and the anticipated cost associated with seeking a business combination. Furthermore, the warrants will expire with no value if we dissolve and liquidate before the consummation of a business combination. Under Marshall Islands law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our Initial Public Offering contained in our amended and restated articles of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain certain requirements and restrictions relating to our Initial Public Offering that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide, among other things, that: • the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, that have been placed into the Trust Account, may not be disbursed from the Trust Account except (1) for payments with respect to shares of common stock converted in connection with the vote to approve the extended period, (2) in connection with a business combination, (3) upon our dissolution and liquidation, (4) for the payment of our tax obligations, or (5) to the extent of $3.0 million of interest (net of taxes) that may be released to us; • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we will submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination only if it is approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders and public stockholders owning less than 40% of the shares sold in the Initial Public Offering both vote against the business combination and, on a cumulative basis with any shares previously converted in connection with a vote, if any, on the extended period, exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated or the extended period is approved, public stockholders who voted against the business combination or the extended period may exercise their conversion rights and receive their pro rata share of the amount then in the Trust Account; • our initial business combination must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of net assets held in the Trust Account (excluding the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of the initial business combination; • if a business combination is not consummated within 24 months (or up to 36 months if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote as described in our initial public offering prospectus) after the completion of our Initial Public Offering, our corporate purposes and powers will immediately thereupon be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities; • upon our dissolution, we will distribute to our public stockholders their pro rata share of the Trust Account in accordance with the trust agreement and the requirements of Marshall Islands law, including our obligations to provide for claims of creditors; and • we may not consummate any other merger, acquisition, asset purchase or similar transaction prior to our initial business combination. Under Marshall Islands law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our Initial Public Offering contained in our articles of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such 9 requirements and restrictions. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders and we will not take any action to waive or amend any of these provisions. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination during the prescribed time period. We expect to encounter competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private equity and venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our Initial Public Offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may materially delay the consummation of a transaction; • our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may materially reduce the resources available for a business combination; and • our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a material competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Because of these factors, we may not be able to compete successfully for an attractive business combination, or to effectuate any business combination within the required time periods. If we do not find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to dissolve and liquidate the Trust Account as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to consummate a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. On July 1, 2008, we consummated our Initial Public Offering. We are also authorized to issue 1,000,000 shares of $.0001 par value preferred stock with such designations, voting and other rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board of directors. No shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding as at December 31, 2009. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may materially adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, the marine transportation and logistics industries are capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance vessel acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital needs. If we finance the purchase of any target business through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; 10 • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see the section below entitled “Effecting a business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination.” Our initial stockholders control a substantial interest in us and, thus, may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders own 19% of our issued and outstanding units (or their equivalent in shares of common stock or warrants), which permits them to influence the outcome of effectively all matters requiring approval by our stockholders at such time, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, following the consummation of our initial business combination. In addition, prior to the completion of our Initial Public Offering, Amadeus Maritime, S.A., an affiliate of Angeliki Frangou, our chairman and chief executive officer, entered into an agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in accordance with the guidelines of Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act pursuant to which it places limit orders for up to an aggregate of $30.0 million of our common stock during the buyback period. Ms. Frangou agreed that Amadeus Maritime S.A. will vote all such shares (1) in favor of our initial business combination and (2) in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for an extension of our corporate existence to up to 36 months from the completion of the Initial Public Offering in the event we have entered into a definitive agreement relating to, but have not yet consummated, our initial business combination. As a result, Ms. Frangou will be able to influence the outcome of the vote on our business combination or a proposed extension. In addition, any portion of the $30.0 million not used for open market purchases of common stock will be applied to the purchase of co-investment shares from us by Amadeus Maritime S.A. immediately prior to the consummation of our business combination. Further, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome of such election. Accordingly, Ms. Frangou and our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. The purchase by Amadeus Maritime S.A. of common stock in the aftermarket pursuant to the limit orders described above may support the market price of the common stock and/or warrants during the buyback period, and accordingly, the termination of the support provided by such purchases may materially and adversely affect the market price of the common stock and/or warrants. Prior to the completion of our Initial Public Offering, Amadeus Maritime S.A., an affiliate of Angeliki Frangou, our chairman and chief executive officer, entered into an agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act, pursuant to which it will place limit orders to purchase any of our shares of common stock offered for sale (and not purchased by another investor) at or below a price equal to the per-share amount held in our Trust Account as reported in our initial preliminary proxy statement filed with the SEC relating to our initial business combination until the earlier of (1) the expiration of the buyback period or (2) the date such purchases reach $30.0 million in total. If the market does not view our initial business combination positively, these purchases may have the effect of counteracting the market’s view of our initial business combination, which will otherwise be reflected by a decline in the market price of our securities. The termination of the support provided by these purchases during the buyback period may materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities. We will be dependent upon interest earned on the Trust Account, which may not be sufficient to fund our search for a target business and consummation of a business combination, in which case we may be forced to borrow funds from Navios Holdings or others, or to liquidate. 11 Of the net proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, only approximately $75,000, after estimated expenses related to our Initial Public Offering, are available to us initially outside the Trust Account to fund our working capital requirements. We are dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the Trust Account to provide us with the additional working capital we need to search for a target business and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled to up to a maximum of $3.0 million for such purpose, if interest rates remain low, we may not have sufficient funds available to provide us with the working capital necessary to consummate a business combination. In such event, we will need to borrow funds from Navios Holdings or others, or be forced to liquidate. Our ability to effect a business combination successfully and to operate successfully thereafter will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination successfully and to operate successfully thereafter will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot be fully ascertained presently. Although we expect Angeliki Frangou, our chairman and chief executive officer, to remain associated with us following a business combination, it is possible that Ms. Frangou will not remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination. Thus, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to scrutinize closely any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, as well as United States securities laws, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time consuming, and could lead to various regulatory issues that hinder our operations. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. These conflicts could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors, including Ms. Frangou in her roles as chairman and chief executive officer of Navios Holdings and Navios Maritime Partners L.P. (“Navios Partners”), and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. Ms. Frangou and Ted Petrone, our president and member of board of directors, are each anticipated to devote approximately five to ten percent of their time per week to our business, which could increase significantly during periods of negotiation for business opportunities. However, if our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. For a complete discussion of the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of with respect to Navios Holdings and Angeliki Frangou, see the section below entitled “Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that may be affiliated with us, Navios Holdings, or our executive officers or directors, which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of our executive officers’ and directors’ involvement with Navios Holdings, we may decide to acquire a target business affiliated with us, Navios Holdings, or our executive officers or directors. Our executive officers and directors are not currently aware of any specific opportunities for us to consummate a business combination with any entities with which they or Navios Holdings are affiliated, and there have been no preliminary discussions concerning a business combination with any such entity or entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on, or targeting, any transaction with any affiliated entities, we would pursue such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for a business combination as set forth in “Business overview — Effecting a business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination” and such transaction was approved by a majority of our disinterested directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with a target business affiliated with us, Navios Holdings or our executive officers or directors, potential conflicts of interest still may exist and, as a result, the terms of the initial business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. Our officers, directors and their affiliates currently are, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities that are similar to those intended to be conducted by us, including Navios Holdings, and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. 12 The majority of our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become, affiliated with additional entities, including other shipping entities, such as Navios Holdings in the case of Ms. Frangou and Mr. Petrone, and Navios Partners in the case of Ms. Frangou, that are engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In addition, each of the independent members of our board of directors is affiliated with an organization that provides services to shipping companies. Due to these existing affiliations, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. We will have the ability to acquire a target business that is in competition with and operates in the same business as Navios Holdings or Navios Partners, subject to our right of first refusal agreement with such entities. In such case, there may be additional conflicts of interest between Navios Holdings, Navios Partners and us, including direct head to head competition for chartering and additional vessel acquisition opportunities, and otherwise. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the section below entitled “Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor or that a potential target business would not be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. In addition, under the amended Omnibus Agreement Navios Holdings has been released from the restrictions for two years until 2011 in connection with acquiring vessels from third parties (but not from the requirement to offer to sell to Navios Partners qualifying vessels in Navios Holdings’ existing fleet). Our initial stockholders beneficially own shares of our common stock that will not participate in liquidating distributions and therefore our executive officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Our initial stockholders have waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation if we fail to consummate a business combination, with respect to the shares of common stock included in the sponsor units they own. The shares of common stock and warrants included in the Sponsor Units and the Private Placement warrants owned by our initial stockholders will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Angeliki Frangou, our chairman and chief executive officer, has a 19% beneficial interest in Navios Holdings and is also its chairman and chief executive officer. Accordingly, the financial interests of our executive officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and timely consummating a business combination. Consequently, the discretion of those executive officers and directors in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our directors’ and officers’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them, as well as the potential for entering into consulting agreements with the post-combination business, may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our directors and officers will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the Trust Account and the amount of interest income from the Trust Account, net of income taxes on such interest, of up to a maximum of $3.0 million, unless the business combination is consummated. These amounts were based on management’s estimates of the funds needed to fund our operations for the 24 months following our Initial Public Offering and consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an acquisition that is not consummated. In addition, it is possible that members of management may enter into consulting agreements with the post-combination business as part of the business combination. The financial interest of our directors and officers could influence their motivation in selecting a target business or negotiating with a target business in connection with a proposed business combination and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. In addition, on January 12, 2010, we announced the appointment of Leonidas Korres as Senior Vice President— Business Development of the Company. Pursuant to an agreement between the us and Navios Holdings, the compensation of Mr. Korres up to the amount of EURO 65,000 is to be paid by Navios Holdings, provided that if we complete a business combination, we will reimburse such amounts to Navios Holdings immediately following the completion of the business combination. In the event that we are unable to complete a business combination, then we will not be obligated to make any payments to Navios Holdings or Mr. Korres with respect to his employment. Each of our independent directors will be entitled to receive $50,000 compensation annually upon the successful consummation of a business combination and, therefore, they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. 13 Each of our independent directors will be entitled to receive $50,000 in cash per year for their board service, accruing pro rata from the respective start of their service on our board of directors and payable only upon the successful consummation of a business combination. The financial interest of our directors could negatively affect their independence and influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our stockholders’ best interest. If conflicts arise, they may not necessarily be resolved in our favor. Our chairman and other directors may continue to serve on our board of directors following the consummation of a business combination and may be paid fees for such services. Thus, such financial interest may influence their motivation and they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our stockholders’ best interest. Because it is possible that our chairman and one or more of our directors may continue to serve on our board of directors after the consummation of our initial business combination, and such individuals may be paid fees for their services, the financial interest of such individuals may influence their motivation when determining whether a particular business combination is in our stockholders’ best interest and securing payment of such fees. Thus, they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our stockholders’ best interest. If conflicts arise, they may not necessarily be resolved in our favor. Since our initial stockholders, including Navios Holdings, will lose their entire investment in us if a business combination is not consummated, and Navios Holdings may be required to pay costs associated with our liquidation, our initial stockholders might purchase shares of our common stock from stockholders who would otherwise choose to vote against a proposed business combination or exercise their conversion rights in connection with such business combination. Our initial stockholders own Sponsor Units that will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The actual per unit value of the Sponsor Units would be less than $10.00, because unlike the shares of our common stock held by our public stockholders, the Sponsor Units are restricted and may not be transferred until 180 days after the consummation of our initial business combination. In addition, on July 1, 2008, Navios Holdings purchased warrants which will also be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. We believe the current equity value for the Sponsor Units is significantly lower than the $10.00 per unit offering price because the holder of these units will not be able to sell or transfer them while Sponsor Units remain in escrow, except in certain limited circumstances (such as transfers to entities controlled by Navios Holdings or Angeliki Frangou, or, in the case of individuals, family members and trusts for estate planning purposes) and these Sponsor Units are not entitled to any proceeds in case we liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. In addition, in the event we are forced to liquidate, Navios Holdings has agreed to advance us the entire amount of the funds necessary to complete such liquidation and has agreed not to seek repayment for such expenses. Given the interest that Navios Holdings has in a business combination being consummated, it is possible that it (and/or our officers and directors) will acquire securities from public stockholders who have elected to redeem their shares of our common stock in order to change their vote and insure that the business combination will be approved (which could result in a business combination being approved even if, after the announcement of the business combination, 40% or more of our public stockholders would have elected their conversion rights, or a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders would have voted against the business combination, but for the purchases made by Navios Holdings (and/or our officers and directors)). It is probable that our initial business combination will be with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and to provide only a limited number of services, thereby preventing us from diversifying our operations, spreading risks or offsetting losses. Our initial business combination must be with a target business with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions held in the Trust Account) at the time of such business combination. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to consummate only the initial business combination with the proceeds of the our Initial Public Offering. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of services. 14 In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to consummate several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business that we acquire. While it is possible that we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business simultaneously, such simultaneous acquisition entails certain risks that may require us to limit our acquisition to one target business. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied, bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of our net assets threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible that we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to consummate a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. As we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds not held in the Trust Account (including interest earned on the Trust Account released to us) in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We have not taken any action with respect to additional financing, nor can we assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could impair the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. As we seek to consummate an initial business combination and to develop our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems, staff, and crew; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, we may not effectively control our operations. Our initial operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to consummate an initial business combination and to develop our business, and our attempts to improve these systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our operations, we may be unable to effectively control and manage the substantially larger operation. Although it is impossible to predict what errors might occur as the result of inadequate controls, it is the case that it is harder to oversee a sizable operation than a small one and, accordingly, more likely that errors will occur as operations grow and that additional management infrastructure and systems will be required to attempt to avoid such errors. If we were to acquire vessels or a business with agreements to purchase individual vessels, we may be subject to risks that result from being a start-up maritime transportation and logistics business. If we were to acquire vessels or a business with agreements to purchase individual vessels, we may be subject to risks that result from being a start-up maritime transportation and logistics business. Such risks could potentially include the dependence on third parties for the commercial and technical management of the vessels, including crewing, maintenance and repair, supply provisioning, freight invoicing and chartering. We may not be able to quickly develop the infrastructure and hire the seafarers and shore-side administrative and management personnel necessary to manage and operate our business effectively if we acquire vessels instead of an operating business. In addition, we might have to begin our operations without advance bookings of charters, which could lead such vessels initially to have a higher than industry standard number of idle days until such time as we establish business relations. 15 Management services relating to a target business’ vessels may be performed by Navios Holdings, which could result in potential conflicts of interest. If we consummate a business combination that involves the acquisition of vessels, we may engage the services of Navios Holdings to provide technical and management services relating to the operation of such vessels. Navios Holdings may receive fees and commissions on gross revenue received by us in respect of each vessel managed, a commission on the gross sale or purchase price of vessels that we purchase or sell, and a commission on all insurance placed. In light of the foregoing, there may be a conflict of interest in selecting between our interests and those of Navios Holdings. Risks Associated with the Marine Transportation and Logistics Industries If charter rates fluctuate and the shipping industry continues to undergo cyclical turns, it may reduce our profitability and operations. The marine transportation and logistics industries have been cyclical in varying degrees, with the shipping business experiencing significant fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. Contraction in demand for imported commodities such as iron ore or coal, as a result of economic downturns or changes in government policies in certain regional markets, could depress vessel freight rates, as well as the general demand for vessels. A decline in demand for, and level of consumption of, refined petroleum products could cause demand for tank vessel capacity and charter rates to decline. We anticipate that future demand for any carriers we may acquire and the related charter rates will be dependent upon continued demand for imported commodities, economic growth in the emerging markets, including the Asia Pacific region, India, Brazil and Russia and the rest of the world, seasonal and regional changes in demand, and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world fleet seems likely to increase, and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could decrease demand and growth in the shipping industry and thereby reduce revenue significantly. A decline in demand for commodities transported in maritime carriers or an increase in supply of vessels could cause a significant decline in charter rates, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The demand for vessels, in general, has been influenced by, among other factors: • global and regional economic conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, such as port congestion and canal closures; • weather and crop yields; • armed conflicts and terrorist activities; • political developments; and • embargoes and strikes. The supply of shipping capacity is also a function of the delivery of new vessels and the number of older vessels scrapped, in lay-up, converted to other uses, reactivated or removed from active service. Supply may also be affected by maritime transportation and other types of governmental regulation, including that of international authorities. These and other factors may cause a decrease in the demand for the services we may ultimately provide or the value of the vessels we may own and operate, thereby limiting our ability to operate successfully any prospective target business with which we may ultimately consummate a business combination. The marine transportation and logistics industries are subject to seasonal fluctuations in demand and, therefore, may cause volatility in our operating results. The marine transportation and logistics industries have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker and dry bulk carrier markets are typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil, coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt 16 vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, revenues are typically weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, typically stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Our operating results, therefore, may be subject to seasonal fluctuations. If we were to acquire vessels or a business with agreements to purchase individual vessels, it is highly unlikely that proxy materials provided to our stockholders would include historical financial statements and, accordingly, investors will not have historical financial statements on which to rely in making their decision whether to vote for the acquisition. If we were to acquire vessels or a business with agreements to purchase individual vessels, it is highly unlikely that the proxy statement we would send to stockholders would, unless otherwise required by applicable law and regulations, contain historical financial statements with respect to the operation of vessels. Although we would provide such historical financial statements if required by applicable law or regulations, such historical financial statements are not often required. Instead, the proxy statement we would send to our stockholders would include, among other matters: (i) historical and prevailing market rates for vessels on the basis of type, age and proposed employment; (ii) our expectations of future market trends and proposed strategy for employment of the vessels; (iii) our anticipated operational (overhead) expenses; and (iv) the valuation of the vessels as assets generally (i.e., whether they are new buildings or second-hand and the type of vessel), all of which, in turn, depend on the sector of the marine transportation and logistics industries in which we consummate such a business combination. Thus, you would not necessarily be able to rely on historical financial statements when deciding whether to approve a business combination involving the acquisition of vessels or a business with agreements to purchase individual vessels. If we experienced a catastrophic loss and our insurance is not adequate to cover such loss, it could lower our profitability and be detrimental to operations. The ownership and operation of vessels in international trade is affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure, personal injury, vessel and cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political conditions in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic marine disaster, including environmental accidents and collisions. All of these risks could result in liability, loss of revenues, increased costs and loss of reputation. We intend to maintain insurance, consistent with industry standards, against these risks on any vessels and other business assets we may acquire upon consummation of a business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to insure against all risks adequately, that any particular claim will be paid out of our insurance, or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our insurers will also require us to pay certain deductible amounts, before they will pay claims, and insurance policies may contain limitations and exclusions, which, although we believe will be standard for the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs and lower our profitability. Additionally, any increase in environmental and other regulations may also result in increased costs for, or the lack of availability of, insurance against the risks of environmental damage, pollution and other claims for damages that may be asserted against us. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage. Our inability to obtain insurance sufficient to cover potential claims or the failure of insurers to pay any significant claims, could lower our profitability and be detrimental to our operations. If we acquire or charter any vessels, we will become subject to various laws, regulations and conventions, including environmental laws that could require significant expenditures both to maintain compliance with such laws and to pay for any uninsured environmental liabilities resulting from a spill or other environmental disaster. The shipping business and vessel operation are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws, and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations, or the impact thereof on the fair market price or useful life of our vessels. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make capital and other expenditures. In order to satisfy any such requirements we may be required to take any of our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably, particularly older vessels, during the remainder of their economic lives. This could lead to significant asset write-downs. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business, require capital expenditures or otherwise increase our cost of doing business, which may materially adversely affect our operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. For example, in various jurisdictions are considering legislation has been enacted, or is under consideration, that would impose more stringent requirements on air pollution and other ship emissions, including emissions of greenhouse gases and ballast water discharged from vessels. We would be required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. 17 The operation of vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the International Safety Management (ISM) Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe vessel operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of the vessels in our owned fleet is ISM Code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. For all vessels, including those that would be operated under our fleet, at present, international liability for oil pollution is governed by the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or the Bunker Convention. In 2001, the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, adopted the Bunker Convention, which imposes strict liability on shipowners for pollution damage and response costs incurred in contracting states as a result of caused by discharges, or threatened discharges of bunker oil from all classes of ships including dry bulk vessels. The Bunker Convention also requires registered owners of ships over a certain size to maintain insurance to cover their liability for pollution damage in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the applicable national or international limitation regime (but not exceeding the amount calculated in accordance with the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims 1976, as amended, or the 1976 Convention). The Bunker Convention became effective in contracting states on November 21, 2008. In non-contracting states, liability for such bunker oil pollution typically is determined by the national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the spillage occurs. We may decide to acquire and operate one or more tankers, which in certain circumstances may be subject to national and international laws governing pollution from such vessels. When a t tanker is carrying a cargo of “persistent oil” as defined by the Civil Liability Convention 1992 (CLC) her owner bears strict liability for any pollution damage caused in a contracting state by an escape or discharge from her cargo or from her bunker tanks. This liability is subject to a financial limit calculated by reference to the tonnage of the ship, and the right to limit liability may be lost if the spill is caused by the shipowner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Liability may also be incurred under CLC for a bunker spill from the vessel even when she is not carrying such a cargo, but is in ballast. When a tanker is carrying clean oil products which do not constitute “persistent oil” for the purposes of CLC, liability for any pollution damage will generally fall outside the Convention and will depend on national or other domestic laws in the jurisdiction where the spillage occurs. The same applies to any pollution from the vessel in a jurisdiction which is not a party to the Convention. The Convention applies in over 100 states around the world, but it does not apply in the United States of America, where the corresponding liability laws are noted for being particularly stringent. In the United States, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, establishes an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills, including bunker oil spills from dry bulk vessels as well as cargo or bunker oil spills from tankers. The OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States, its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in United States waters, which includes the United States’ territorial sea and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. Under the OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or substantial threats of discharges, of oil from their vessels. In addition to potential liability under the OPA as the relevant federal legislation, vessel owners may in some instances incur liability on an even more stringent basis under state law in the particular state where the spillage occurred. For example, California regulates oil spills pursuant to California Government Code section 8670 et seq. These regulations prohibit the discharge of oil, require an oil contingency plan be filed with the state, require that the ship owner contract with an oil response organization and require a valid certificated of financial responsibility, all prior to the vessel entering state waters. Outside of the United States, other national laws generally provide for the owner to bear strict liability for pollution, subject to a right to limit liability under applicable national or international regimes for limitation of liability. The most widely applicable international regime limiting maritime pollution liability is the 1976 Convention referred to above. Rights to limit liability under the 1976 Convention are forfeited where a spill is caused by a shipowner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Certain states jurisdictions have ratified the IMO’s Protocol of 1996, or the Protocol of 1996, to the 1976 Convention. The Protocol provides which for substantially increased the higher liability limits to apply in those jurisdictions than the limits set forth in the 1976 Convention. Finally, some jurisdictions are not a party to either the 1976 Convention or the Protocol of 1996, and, therefore, a shipowner’s rights to limit liability for maritime pollution in such jurisdictions may be uncertain. In 2005, the European Union adopted a directive on ship-source pollution, imposing criminal sanctions for intentional, reckless or seriously negligent pollution discharges by ships. The directive could result in criminal liability being incurred in circumstances where it would not be incurred under international law as set out in the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or the MARPOL Convention. Criminal liability for an oil pollution incident could not only result in us incurring substantial penalties or fines but may also, in some jurisdictions, facilitate civil liability claims for greater compensation than would otherwise have been payable. 18 If we acquire or charter any vessels, we will become subject to vessel security regulations and will incur costs to comply with recently adopted regulations and may be subject to costs to comply with similar regulations which may be adopted in the future in response to terrorism. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS, created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter went into effect in July 2004, and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created International Ship and Port Facilities Security, or ISPS Code. Among the various requirements are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems, or AIS, to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel security plans; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations, intended to be aligned with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. vessels from MTSA vessel security measures, provided such vessels have on board, by July 1, 2004, a valid International Ship Security Certificate (ISSC) that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. We will implement the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code and take measures for any vessels we may acquire or charter to attain compliance with all applicable security requirements within the prescribed time periods. Although management does not believe these additional requirements will have a material financial impact on our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be an interruption in operations to bring vessels into compliance with the applicable requirements and any such interruption could cause a decrease in charter revenues. Furthermore, additional security measures could be required in the future which could have significant financial impact on us. The operation of ocean-going vessels entails the possibility of marine disasters including damage or destruction of a vessel due to accident, the loss of a vessel due to piracy or terrorism, damage or destruction of cargo and similar events that may cause a loss of revenue from affected vessels and damage our business reputation, which may in turn lead to loss of business. The operation of ocean-going vessels entails certain inherent risks that may adversely affect our business and reputation, including: • damage or destruction of vessel due to marine disaster such as a collision; • the loss of a vessel due to piracy and terrorism; • cargo and property losses or damage as a result of the foregoing or less drastic causes such as human error, mechanical failure and bad weather; • environmental accidents as a result of the foregoing; and • business interruptions and delivery delays caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could substantially increase our costs. For instance, if any vessels we may acquire or charter suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, could decrease our revenues and earnings substantially, particularly if a number of vessels are damaged or drydocked at the same time. The involvement of any vessels we may acquire or charter in a disaster or delays in delivery or damages or loss of cargo may harm our reputation as a safe and 19 reliable vessel operator and cause us to lose business. If a business combination involves the ownership of vessels, such vessels could be arrested by maritime claimants, which could result in the interruption of business and decrease revenue and lower profitability. Crew members, tort claimants, claimants for breach of certain maritime contracts, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other persons may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages, and in many circumstances a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by “arresting” a vessel through court processes. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s lien has arisen, but also any “associated” vessel owned or controlled by the legal or beneficial owner of that vessel. If any vessel ultimately owned and operated by us is “arrested,” this could result in a material loss of revenues, or require us to pay substantial amounts to have the “arrest” lifted. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have increased recently in frequency and magnitude, which could adversely affect our business. The shipping industry has historically been affected by acts of piracy in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden. Begining in 2008 and continuing through 2009, acts of piracy saw a steep rise, particularly off the coast of Somalia in the Gulf of Aden. One of the most significant examples of the increase in piracy came in November 2008 when the M/V Sirius Star, a crude oil tanker which was not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth approximately $100 million. Additionally, in December of 2009 the M/V Navios Apollon, which is owned by Navios Partners was seized by pirates 800 miles off the coast of Somalia while transporting fertilizer from Tampa, Florida to Rozi, India. If these piracy attacks result in regions (in which our vessels are deployed) being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer would remain liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer could dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. The target business may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against any vessels we acquire or charter, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for any vessels we acquire or charter, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Governments could requisition vessels of a target business during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition a business’ vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although a target business would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of any of its vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. We may become subject to United States federal income taxation on our United States source shipping income, which would reduce our net income and impair our cash flow. Due to the nature of the marine transportation and logistics industries, we expect to consummate a business combination with a target business outside of the United States, in which case we would seek to qualify under Section 883 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, for an exemption from U.S. federal income tax on substantially all of our U.S.-source shipping income (if any). Under the Code, 50.0% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation that is attributable to transportation that either begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S.-source shipping income. U.S.-source shipping income generally is subject to a 4.0% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction or, if such U.S.-source shipping income is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, U.S. federal corporate income tax (the highest statutory rate presently is 35.0%) as well as a branch profits tax (presently imposed at a 30.0% rate on effectively connected earnings), unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code. We can give no assurance that we will qualify for the Section 883 exemption. In such case, our net income and cash flow will be reduced by the amount of such tax. The Section 883 exemption generally does not apply to income other than shipping income. 20 If we acquire a target business that charters vessels on the spot market (i.e., vessels chartered on a voyage basis or for periods of less than 12 months), it may increase our risk of doing business following the business combination. We may consummate a business combination with a target business that involves the chartering of vessels on a spot charter basis. Spot charters are entered into as either voyage charters or short-term time charters of less than 12 months’ duration. Although dependence on spot charters is not unusual in the shipping industry, the spot charter market is highly competitive and spot charter rates are subject to significant fluctuations based upon available charters and the supply of and demand for seaborne shipping capacity. Although our focus on the spot charter market may enable us to benefit from strengthening industry conditions, should they occur, to do so we may be required to procure spot charter business consistently. We cannot assure you that spot charters will be available at rates that will be sufficient to enable us to operate our business profitably. In addition, our dependence on the spot charter market may result in lower utilization of our vessels and, consequently, decreased profitability. We cannot assure you that rates in the spot charter market will not decline, that charters in the spot charter market will continue to be available or that our dependence on the spot charter market will not result in generally lower overall utilization or decreased profitability, the occurrence of any of which events could reduce our earnings and cause us to incur losses. If a target business has or obtains a vessel that is of second-hand or older nature, it could increase our costs and decrease our profitability. We believe that competition for employment of second-hand vessels may be intense. Additionally, second-hand vessels may carry no warranties from sellers with respect to their condition as compared to warranties from shipyards available for newly-constructed vessels, and may be subject to problems created by the use of their original owners. If we purchase any second-hand vessels, we may incur additional expenditures as a result of these risks, which may reduce our profitability. While it will be our intention, if we acquire a target business in this area, to sell or retire our vessels before they are considered older vessels, under shipping standards, in the rare case where we continue to own and operate a vessel for a longer period, we could be faced with the additional expenditures necessary to maintain a vessel in good operating condition as the age of a vessel increases. Moreover, port-state authorities in certain jurisdictions may demand that repairs be made to this type of vessel before allowing it to berth at or depart a particular port, even though that vessel may be in class and in compliance with all relevant international maritime conventions. Should any of these types of problems or changes develop, income may be lost if a vessel goes off-hire and additional unforeseen and unbudgeted expenses may be incurred. If we choose to maintain any vessels past the age that we have planned, we cannot assure you that market conditions will justify expenditures with respect to any of the foregoing or enable us to operate these vessels profitably. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing required to acquire vessels or new businesses. Furthermore, such a disruption would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and are currently in a recession. For example, the credit markets worldwide and in the U.S. have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government, state governments and foreign governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Securities and Exchange Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the U.S. and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. Due to the fact that we would possibly cover all or a portion of the cost of vessel acquisition with debt financing, such uncertainty could hamper our ability to finance vessel or new business acquisition. We could face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in certain securities markets, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the U.S. and worldwide could adversely affect a target business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under any future financial arrangements. The current market conditions may last longer than we anticipate. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. 21 The economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region has markedly reduced demand for shipping services and has decreased shipping rates, which adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Currently, China, Japan, other Pacific Asian economies and India are the main driving force behind the development in seaborne drybulk trades and the demand for drybulk carriers. Reduced demand from such economies has driven decreased rates and vessel values. A further negative change in economic conditions in any Asian Pacific country, but particularly in China or Japan, as well as India, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, by reducing demand and the resultant charter rates. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Furthermore, the economic slowdown in the United States, the European Union, and other countries may deepen the economic slowdown in China, among others. While the recent introduction of a $586 billion economic stimulus package by the Chinese government is designed in part, to increase consumer spending and reignite the steep growth China experienced before the recent downturn, it remains to be seen whether such a course of action by China will have the desired effect. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, would likely be adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries as such downturn would likely translate into reduced demand for shipping services and lower shipping rates industry-wide. As a result, our operating results would be further materially affected. Because international maritime transportation and logistics businesses often generate most or all of their revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of their expenses in other currencies, upon the consummation of an initial business combination, exchange rate fluctuations could cause us to suffer exchange rate losses thereby increasing expenses and reducing income. Upon the consummation of an initial business combination, it is likely that we will engage in worldwide commerce with a variety of entities. Although our operations may expose us to certain levels of foreign currency risk, our transactions may be predominantly U.S. dollar denominated. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate in effect at the date of each transaction. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our income. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2009, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased by approximately 2.7% as compared to the Euro. A greater percentage of our transactions and expenses in the future may be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar. As part of our overall risk management policy, we attempt to hedge these risks in exchange rate fluctuations from time to time. We may not always be successful in such hedging activities and, as a result, our operating results could suffer as a result of un-hedged losses incurred as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. A failure to pass inspection by classification societies could result in any vessels we may acquire becoming unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period and a corresponding decrease in operating cash flows. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and SOLAS. A vessel must undergo an annual survey, an intermediate survey and a special survey. In lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel we acquire fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, or special survey, the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable, potentially causing a negative impact on our revenues due to the loss of revenues from such vessel until it was able to trade again. 