ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors in evaluating our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations or an investment in our stock. Although we describe below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K the risks we consider to be the most material, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, business or operations in the future. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events described below, individually or in combination, were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Factors Relating to Our Corporate History and Strategy We have substantially changed the businesses in which we operate. Accordingly, it may be difficult to evaluate our performance based on our operating history. Our financial statements for periods prior to February 2011 include the financial position and results of operations of the business units formerly operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, AMG. AMG was primarily engaged in the business of providing content distribution and creative services to the media and entertainment industries. The businesses of AMG were organized into two operating segments: businesses that provided content management and delivery services (“Content Services”), and businesses that provided creative services (“Creative Services”). The Content Services segment was in turn divided into three business units: (i) the content distribution business unit (“Content Distribution”), (ii) the media management services business unit (“Media Services”) and (iii) the systems integration business unit (“Systems Integration” or “SI”). We completed the sales of the Creative Services operating segment and Media Services business unit (which is referred to collectively as “Creative/Media”) and the Content Distribution business unit on or before February 28, 2011 and shut-down the Systems Integration business unit in June 2011. The businesses of AMG, accordingly, are reflected as discontinued operations in our financial statements. We acquired our current principal operating subsidiary, Monitronics, on December 17, 2010. Hence, the results of operations of Monitronics are only included in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 with respect to the stub period December 17, 2010 through December 31, 2010, and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012. We had previously included in our Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed December 28, 2010, Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 14, 2011, and Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed March 6, 2012, the following: · the audited consolidated financial statements of Monitronics for the periods July 1, 2010 through December 16, 2010 (Predecessor) and December 17, 2010 through December 31, 2010 (Successor); · the audited consolidated financial statements of Monitronics for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, and for the three months ended June 30, 2010; · the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Monitronics for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009; · an unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2010, giving effect to the acquisition of Monitronics and the dispositions of the Creative/Media and Content Distribution businesses, on a pro forma basis, as if such transactions had occurred on that date; and · an unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2009, giving effect to the acquisition of Monitronics and the dispositions of the Creative/Media and Content Distribution businesses, on a pro forma basis, as if such transactions had occurred on January 1, 2009. However, the historical financial information of Monitronics included in these reports generally reflect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows with respect to time periods during which it was a stand-alone entity, rather than part of a public company, and may not necessarily reflect what such results would have been if Monitronics had been a subsidiary of our company during the periods presented. Moreover, the unaudited pro forma financial statements included in the December 2010 report do not purport to represent, and are not necessarily indicative of what our financial position or results of operations would have been had such transactions occurred on the dates indicated. 11 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. Monitronics, our primary operating subsidiary, incurred losses in each of its last three full fiscal years. In future periods, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent quarterly or annual basis. Failure to maintain profitability in future periods may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful. One focus of our corporate strategy is to seek opportunities to grow free cash flow through strategic acquisitions, which may include leveraged acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate that strategy, and if we are not able to invest our capital in acquisitions that are accretive to free cash flow it could negatively impact the growth of our primary operating business. Our ability to consummate such acquisitions may be negatively impacted by various factors, including among other things: · failure to identify attractive acquisition candidates on acceptable terms; · competition from other bidders; · inability to raise any required financing; and · antitrust or other regulatory restrictions, including any requirements that may be imposed by government agencies as a condition to any required regulatory approval. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business strategy includes the future acquisition of businesses that we believe are strategically attractive and that we expect will be accretive to consolidated free cash flow. If we undertake any acquisition, the process of operating such acquired business on a stand-alone basis, or, if applicable, of integrating any acquired business with Monitronics, may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Future acquisitions could reduce our current stockholders’ ownership percentage, cause us to incur debt and expose us to liabilities. Further, we may incur significant expenditures and devote substantial management time and attention in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. Lastly, while we intend to implement appropriate controls and procedures as we integrate any acquired companies, we may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies’ disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting within the time periods required by U.S. federal securities laws and regulations. We are a holding company and derive substantially all of our revenue and cash flow from our primary operating subsidiary, Monitronics. Monitronics is a separate and independent legal entity and has no obligation to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. The ability of Monitronics to pay dividends to us is subject to, among other things, compliance with covenants in its credit agreement and its high yield bond indenture, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds, and applicable state laws. As of December 31, 2012, Monitronics had consolidated indebtedness of $1,108,383,000. Claims of creditors of Monitronics have priority as to its assets over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. An inability to access capital markets at attractive rates could materially increase our expenses. Although we currently have sufficient cash and investments available to meet our anticipated capital requirements for the foreseeable future, we may in the future require access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for investments and expenditures. In any such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If our ability to access required capital were to become significantly constrained, we could incur material borrowing costs, our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. We may have substantial indemnification obligations under certain inter-company agreements we entered into in connection with the spin-off of our company from DHC. Pursuant to our tax sharing agreement with DHC, we have agreed to be responsible for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). We have also agreed to be responsible for and indemnify DHC with respect to (i) certain taxes attributable to DHC or any of its subsidiaries (other than Discovery Communications, LLC) and (ii) all taxes arising as a result of the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). Our indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Pursuant to the reorganization agreement we entered into with DHC in connection with the spin-off, we assumed certain indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all non-tax liabilities that may exist relating to the business of our former subsidiary, 12 Table of Contents AMG, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as certain obligations of DHC. Any indemnification payments under the tax sharing agreement or the reorganization agreement could be substantial. Factors Relating to Our Common Stock It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, and a Series C that, except in such limited circumstances as may be required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights; · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest or exercise of voting rights; · limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring such action to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders; · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; · requiring shareholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation; · requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B Common Stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B Common Stock would be diluted, for example by issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and · the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. The beneficial ownership by John C. Malone, a former director of the Company, of shares of our common stock, that represent approximately 35% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2013, may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, Monitronics’ new Credit Facility provides that the occurrence of specified change of control events will result in an event of default thereunder, and the Senior Notes include a covenant that requires Monitronics to make an offer to purchase all outstanding Senior Notes, at 101% of par, upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, each of which could cause an acquisition of our company to be prohibitively expensive for a potential bidder. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan in order to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While our shareholder rights plan is designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of our company, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of our company in a transaction that our shareholders may find favorable. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our shareholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common shareholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of shareholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, 13 Table of Contents holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders. Although our Series B Common Stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, there is no meaningful trading market for the stock. Our Series B Common Stock is not widely held, with 95% of the outstanding shares as of January 31, 2013 beneficially owned by John C. Malone, a former director of the Company. Although it is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, it is sparsely traded and does not have an active trading market. The OTC Bulletin Board tends to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations, and market conditions. Each share of the Series B Common Stock is convertible, at any time at the option of the holder, into one share of Series A Common Stock, which is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “ASCMA.” Factors Relating to Monitronics Monitronics faces risks in acquiring and integrating new subscribers. The acquisition of alarm monitoring agreements (“AMAs”) by Monitronics involves a number of risks, including the risk that the purchased AMAs may not be profitable due to higher than expected account attrition, lower than expected revenues from the AMAs or, when applicable, lower than expected recoveries from dealers. The purchase price Monitronics pays a dealer for an AMA is affected by the monthly recurring revenue generated by the AMA, as well as several other factors, including the level of competition, Monitronics’ prior experience with AMAs purchased from the dealer, the number of AMAs purchased, the subscriber’s credit score and the type of security equipment used by the subscriber. To the extent that the servicing costs or the attrition rates are higher than expected or the revenues from the AMAs or, when applicable, the recoveries from dealers are lower than expected, Monitronics’ business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Monitronics is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its subscribers. Substantially all of Monitronics’ revenues are derived from the recurring monthly revenue due from subscribers under the AMAs. Therefore, Monitronics is dependent on the ability and willingness of subscribers to pay amounts due under the AMAs on a monthly basis in a timely manner. Although subscribers are contractually obligated to pay amounts due under an AMA and are prohibited from canceling the AMA for the initial term of the AMA (typically between three to five years), subscribers’ payment obligations are unsecured, which could impair Monitronics’ ability to collect any unpaid amounts from its subscribers. To the extent defaults by subscribers of their obligations under the AMAs are greater than anticipated, Monitronics’ business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Monitronics relies on a significant number of its subscribers remaining with it for an extended period of time. Monitronics incurs significant upfront cash costs for each new subscriber. Monitronics requires a substantial amount of time, typically exceeding the initial term of the related AMA, for it to receive cash payments (net of its variable cash operating costs) from a particular subscriber that are sufficient to offset this upfront cost. Accordingly, Monitronics’ long-term performance is dependent on its subscribers remaining with it as subscribers for as long as possible. This requires Monitronics to minimize its rate of subscriber cancellations, or attrition. Factors that can increase cancellations include subscribers who relocate and do not reconnect, problems with service quality, competition from other alarm monitoring companies, equipment obsolescence, adverse economic conditions and the affordability of its service. If Monitronics fails to keep the subscribers for a sufficiently long period of time, attrition rates would be higher than expected and Monitronics’ financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, Monitronics may experience higher attrition rates with respect to subscribers acquired in bulk buys than subscribers acquired pursuant to Monitronics’ authorized dealer program. Monitronics completed its largest bulk buy during the fourth quarter of 2012, increasing its subscriber base by more than 10%. 14 Table of Contents Monitronics is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its dealers. Under the standard alarm monitoring purchase agreement (“AMPA”) that Monitronics enters into with its dealers, if a subscriber terminates their service with Monitronics during the first twelve months after the AMA has been purchased, the dealer is typically required to elect between substituting another AMA for the terminating AMA or compensating Monitronics in an amount based on the original purchase price of the terminating AMA. Monitronics is subject to the risk that dealers will breach their obligation to provide a comparable substitute AMA for a terminating AMA. Although Monitronics withholds specified amounts from the purchase price paid to dealers for AMAs (holdback), which may be used to satisfy or offset these and other applicable dealer obligations under the AMPA, there can be no guarantee that these amounts will be sufficient to satisfy or offset the full extent of the default by a dealer of its obligations under an AMPA. If the holdback does prove insufficient to cover dealer obligations, Monitronics is also subject to the credit risk that the dealers may not have sufficient funds to compensate Monitronics when substitute AMAs are unavailable or that any such dealer will otherwise breach its obligation to compensate Monitronics for a terminating AMA. To the extent defaults by dealers of their obligations under the AMPAs are greater than anticipated, Monitronics’ financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The alarm monitoring business is subject to macroeconomic factors, including prolonged downturns in the housing market, which may negatively impact Monitronics’ results of operations and subscriber account growth. The alarm monitoring business is dependent in part on national, regional and local economic conditions. In particular, where disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by higher housing, energy, interest or other costs or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), the alarm monitoring business could experience increased attrition rates and reduced consumer demand. Although Monitronics has continued to grow its business in the most recent periods of general economic downturn, no assurance can be given that it will be able to continue acquiring quality AMAs or that it will not experience higher attrition rates. In addition, any deterioration in new construction and sales of existing single family homes could reduce opportunities to grow Monitronics’ subscriber accounts from the sales of new security systems and services and the take-over of existing security systems that had previously been monitored by Monitronics’ competitors. If the general economic downturn is prolonged or materially worsens, Monitronics’ results of operations and subscriber account growth could be materially and adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in states where Monitronics’ subscribers are more heavily concentrated may negatively impact Monitronics’ results of operations. Even as economic conditions may improve in the U.S. as a whole, this improvement may not occur or further deterioration may occur in the regions where Monitronics’ subscribers are more heavily concentrated (such as Texas, California, Florida and Arizona). Although Monitronics has a geographically diverse subscriber base, adverse conditions in one or more states where Monitronics’ business is more heavily concentrated could have a significant adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If the insurance industry were to change its practice of providing incentives to homeowners for the use of alarm monitoring services, Monitronics may experience a reduction in new customer growth or an increase in its subscriber attrition rate. It has been common practice in the insurance industry to provide a reduction in rates for policies written on homes that have monitored alarm systems. There can be no assurance that insurance companies will continue to offer these rate reductions. If these incentives were reduced or eliminated, new homeowners who otherwise may not feel the need for alarm monitoring services would be removed from Monitronics’ potential customer pool, which could hinder the growth of Monitronics’ business, and existing subscribers may choose to disconnect or not renew their service contracts, which could increase Monitronics’ attrition rates. In either case, Monitronics’ results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Risks of liability from Monitronics’ business and operations may be significant. The nature of the services provided by Monitronics potentially exposes it to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. If subscribers believe that they incurred losses as a result of an action or a failure to act by Monitronics, the subscribers could bring claims against Monitronics, and Monitronics has been subject to lawsuits of this type from time to time. Similarly, if dealers believe that they incurred losses or were denied rights under the AMPAs as a result of an action or a failure to act by Monitronics, the dealers could bring claims against Monitronics. Substantially all of Monitronics’ AMAs and AMPAs contain provisions limiting Monitronics’ liability to subscribers and dealers, respectively, in an attempt to reduce this risk. However, in the event of any such litigation, no assurance can be given that these limitations will be enforced, and the costs of such litigation or the related settlements or judgments could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ financial condition. In 15 Table of Contents addition, there can be no assurance that Monitronics is adequately insured for these risks. Certain of Monitronics’ insurance policies and the laws of some states may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages or liability arising from gross negligence. If significant uninsured damages are assessed against Monitronics, the resulting liability could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ financial condition or results of operations. Future litigation could result in adverse publicity for Monitronics. In the ordinary course of business, from time to time, Monitronics is the subject of complaints or litigation from subscribers or inquiries from government officials, sometimes related to alleged violations of state consumer protection statutes (including by Monitronics’ dealers), negligent dealer installation and negligent service of alarm monitoring systems. Monitronics may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, alleged discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination claims. In addition to diverting Monitronics’ management resources, adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially and adversely affect Monitronics’ reputation in the communities it services, regardless of whether such allegations are unfounded. Such adverse publicity could result in higher attrition rates and greater difficulty in attracting new subscribers on terms that are attractive to Monitronics or at all. A disruption to Monitronics’ monitoring facility and its back-up monitoring facility could adversely affect its business. A disruption to both the monitoring facility and the back-up monitoring facility could affect Monitronics’ ability to provide alarm monitoring services to its subscribers. Any such disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, transmission interruption, malicious acts or terrorism. Monitronics’ main monitoring facility holds Underwriters’ Laboratories listings as protective signaling services stations and maintains certain standards of building integrity, redundant computer and communications facilities and backup power, among other safeguards. However, no assurance can be given that both of Monitronics’ monitoring facilities will not be impacted by a disruption, including one from a catastrophic event or natural disaster. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business. Monitronics relies on third parties to transmit signals to its monitoring facilities. Monitronics relies on various third-party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to its monitoring facilities in a timely and consistent manner. These telecommunications providers and signal processing centers could fail to transmit or communicate these signals to the monitoring facilities for many reasons, including due to disruptions from fire, natural disasters, weather, transmission interruption, malicious acts or terrorism. The failure of one or more of these telecommunications providers or signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facilities in a timely manner could affect Monitronics’ ability to provide alarm monitoring services to its subscribers. There can be no assurance that third-party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers will continue to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facilities without disruption. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business. See also “Shifts in customer choice of, or telecommunications providers’ support for, telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact Monitronics’ business and require significant capital expenditures” below with respect to risks associated with changes in signal transmissions. The alarm monitoring business is subject to technological innovation over time. Monitronics’ monitoring services depend upon the technology (both hardware and software) of security alarm systems located at subscribers’ premises. Monitronics may be required to implement new technology both to attract and retain subscribers, including in response to changes in land-line or cellular technology or other factors, which could require significant expenditures. In addition, the availability of any new features developed for use in our industry (whether developed by Monitronics or otherwise) can have a significant impact on a subscriber’s initial decision to choose Monitronics’ or its competitor’s products and a subscriber’s decision to renew with Monitronics or switch to one of its competitors. To the extent Monitronics’ competitors have greater capital and other resources to dedicate to responding to technological innovation over time, the products and services offered by Monitronics may become less attractive to current or future subscribers thereby reducing demand for such products and services and increasing attrition over time. Those competitors that benefit from more capital being available to them may be at a particular advantage to Monitronics in this respect. If Monitronics is unable to adapt in response to changing technologies, market conditions or subscriber requirements in a timely manner, Monitronics’ may experience increased attrition rates. Monitronics also faces potential competition from improvements in self-monitoring systems, which enable current or future subscribers to monitor their home environments without third-party involvement, which could further increase attrition rates over time and hinder new subscriber acquisitions of new AMAs. 16 Table of Contents Shifts in customer choice of, or telecommunications providers’ support for, telecommunications services and equipment could adversely impact Monitronics’ business and require significant capital expenditures. A significant portion of Monitronics’ subscriber alarm systems use either a traditional, land-line telecommunication service or a 2G cellular service to communicate alarm signals from the subscribers’ locations to Monitronics’ monitoring facility. There is a growing trend for consumers to give up their land-line and exclusively use cellular and IP communication technology in their homes and businesses, and telecommunications providers may discontinue land-line services in the future. In addition, there is no guarantee that telecommunications providers will continue to support the 2G cellular network in the future. The continued operation of both the landline and 2G cellular networks will depend on a number of factors which are outside of Monitronics’ control. If either the land-line or 2G cellular network is discontinued, subscribers will need to replace certain equipment in their security system to maintain their monitoring service. This could increase Monitronics’ subscriber attrition rates and, to retain customers, require Monitronics to subsidize the replacement of subscribers’ outdated systems at its own expense. Any such upgrades or implementations could require significant expenditures and also divert management’s attention and other important resources away from customer service and sales efforts. In the future, Monitronics may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt existing technologies to changing market demands. If Monitronics is unable to adapt timely to changing technologies, market conditions or customer preferences, Monitronics’ business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Privacy concerns, such as consumer identity theft and security breaches, could hurt Monitronics’ reputation and revenues. As part of its operations, Monitronics collects a large amount of private information from its subscribers, including credit card information, images and voice recordings. If Monitronics were to experience a breach of its data security, it may put private information of its subscribers at risk of exposure. To the extent that any such exposure leads to credit card fraud or identity theft, Monitronics may experience a general decline in consumer confidence in its business, which may lead to an increase in attrition rates or may make it more difficult to attract new subscribers. If consumers become reluctant to use Monitronics’ services because of concerns over data privacy or credit card fraud, Monitronics’ ability to generate revenues would be impaired. In addition, if technology upgrades or other expenditures are required to prevent security breaches of its network, boost general consumer confidence in its business, or prevent credit card fraud and identity theft, Monitronics may be required to make unplanned capital expenditures or expend other resources. Any such loss of confidence in its business or additional capital expenditure requirement could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Monitronics’ reputation as a service provider of high quality security offerings may be adversely affected by product defects or shortfalls in customer service. Monitronics’ business depends on its reputation and ability to maintain good relationships with its subscribers, dealers and local regulators, among others. Monitronics’ reputation may be harmed either through product defects, such as the failure of one or more of its subscribers’ alarm systems, or shortfalls in customer service. Subscribers generally judge Monitronics’ performance through their interactions with the staff at the monitoring centers and dealers who perform on-site maintenance services. Any failure to meet subscribers’ expectations in such customer service areas could cause an increase in attrition rates or make it difficult to recruit new subscribers. Any harm to Monitronics’ reputation or subscriber relationships caused by the actions of its dealers, personnel or third party service providers or any other factors could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. A loss of experienced employees could adversely affect Monitronics. The success of Monitronics has been largely dependent upon the active participation of its officers and employees. The loss of the services of key members of Monitronics’ management for any reason may have a material adverse effect on the operations of Monitronics and the ability of Monitronics to maintain and grow its business. Monitronics depends on the managerial skills and expertise of its management and employees to provide customer service by, among other things, monitoring and responding to alarm signals, coordinating equipment repairs, administering billing and collections under the AMAs and administering and providing dealer services under the AMPAs. There is no assurance that Monitronics will be able to retain its current management and other experienced employees or replace them satisfactorily to the extent they leave the employ of Monitronics. The loss of any such experienced employees’ services and expertise could materially and adversely affect Monitronics’ business. 17 Table of Contents The high level of competition in Monitronics’ industry could adversely affect its business. The security alarm monitoring industry is highly competitive and fragmented. As of December 31, 2012, Monitronics was one of the largest alarm monitoring companies in the U.S. when measured by the total number of subscribers under contract. Monitronics faces competition from other alarm monitoring companies, including companies that have more capital and that may offer higher prices and more favorable terms to dealers for AMAs purchased or charge lower prices for monitoring services. Monitronics also faces competition from a significant number of small regional competitors that concentrate their capital and other resources in targeting local markets and form new marketing channels that may displace the existing alarm system dealer channels for acquiring AMAs. Further, Monitronics is facing increasing competition from telecommunications and cable companies who are expanding into alarm monitoring services and bundling their existing offerings with monitored security services. The existing access to and relationship with subscribers that these companies have could give them a substantial advantage over Monitronics, especially if they are able to offer subscribers a lower price by bundling these services. Any of these forms of competition could reduce the acquisition opportunities available to Monitronics, thus slowing its rate of growth, or requiring it to increase the price paid for such subscriber accounts, thus reducing its return on investment and negatively impacting its revenues and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain additional funds to grow Monitronics’ business. Monitronics intends to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of subscriber accounts through its authorized dealer program, among other means. To continue its growth strategy, Monitronics intends to make additional draw downs under the revolving credit portion of the Credit Facility and may seek financing through new credit arrangements or the possible sale of new securities, any of which may lead to higher leverage or result in higher borrowing costs. An inability to obtain funding through external financing sources on favorable terms or at all is likely to adversely affect Monitronics’ ability to continue or accelerate its subscriber account acquisition activities. Monitronics has a substantial amount of indebtedness and the costs of servicing that debt may materially affect its business and ours. Monitronics has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, Monitronics had consolidated indebtedness of $1,108,383,000. That substantial indebtedness, combined with its other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: · require Monitronics to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations (which also constitutes substantially all of our cash flow) to the payment of interest and principal due under its indebtedness, which will reduce funds available to fund future subscriber account purchases, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; · limit Monitronics’ ability to obtain additional financing required to fund future subscriber account purchases, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · place Monitronics at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of its competitors that are less leveraged; · reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures; and · cause any refinancing of Monitronics’ indebtedness to be at higher interest rates and require Monitronics to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. 18 Table of Contents The agreements governing Monitronics various debt obligations, including its Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes, impose restrictions on its business and such restrictions could adversely affect its ability to undertake certain corporate actions. The agreements governing Monitronics’ indebtedness restrict its ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · make cash distributions to us by means of loans or cash dividends; · make certain loans and investments; · create liens; · enter into transactions with affiliates, including our company; · restrict subsidiary distributions; · dissolve, merge or consolidate; · make capital expenditures; · transfer, sell or dispose of assets; and · acquire certain types of alarm monitoring contracts. Monitronics must also comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Facility. Credit Facility covenants include capital expenditure limits, maximum total Monitronics debt to EBITDA (as defined within the Credit Facility agreement) ratios, a minimum Monitronics fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum eligible recurring monthly revenue (as defined within the Credit Facility agreement) to EBITDA ratio, and a maximum attrition rate. If Monitronics cannot comply with any of these covenants, it may not be able to make additional draw downs under the revolving credit facility, which would limit Monitronics’ ability to manage its working capital requirements. In addition, failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the Credit Facility or Senior Notes could lead to an event of default, which could result in the acceleration of a substantial amount of indebtedness. Third party claims with respect to Monitronics’ intellectual property, if decided against Monitronics, may result in competing uses of Monitronics’ intellectual property or require the adoption of new, non-infringing intellectual property. Monitronics has received and may continue to receive notices claiming it committed intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other intellectual property violations and third parties have claimed, and may, in the future, claim that Monitronics does not own or have rights to use all intellectual property rights used in the conduct of its business. While Monitronics does not believe that any of the currently outstanding claims are material, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert future infringement claims against Monitronics or claims that Monitronics’ rights to its intellectual property are invalid or unenforceable, and Monitronics cannot guarantee that these claims will be unsuccessful. Any claims involving rights to use the “Monitronics” mark could have a material adverse effect on the alarm monitoring business if such claims were decided against Monitronics and it were precluded from using or licensing the “Monitronics” mark or others were allowed to use it. If Monitronics were required to adopt a new name, it would entail marketing costs in connection with building up recognition and goodwill in such new name. In the event that Monitronics was enjoined from using any of its other intellectual property, there would be costs associated with the replacement of such intellectual property with developed, acquired or licensed intellectual property. There would also be costs associated with the defense and settlement of any infringement or misappropriation allegations and any damages that may be awarded. Factors Relating to Regulatory Matters “False Alarm” ordinances could adversely affect Monitronics’ business and operations. Significant concern has arisen in certain municipalities about the high incidence of false alarms. In some localities, this concern has resulted in local ordinances or policies that restrict police response to third-party monitored burglar alarms. In addition, an increasing number of local governmental authorities have considered or adopted various measures aimed at reducing the number of false alarms, including: · subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms; · imposing fines on alarm monitoring services customers for false alarms; · imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location; and · requiring further verification of an alarm signal, such as visual verification or verification to two different phone numbers, before the police will respond. 19 Table of Contents Enactment of these measures could adversely affect Monitronics’ future operations and business. For example, numerous cities or metropolitan areas have implemented verified response ordinances for residential and commercial burglar alarms. A verified response policy means that police officers generally do not respond to an alarm until someone else (e.g., the resident, a neighbor or a security guard) first verifies that it is valid. Some alarm monitoring companies operating in these areas hire security guards or use third-party guard firms to verify an alarm. If Monitronics needs to hire security guards or use third-party guard firms, it could have a material adverse effect on its business through either increased servicing costs, which could negatively affect the ability of Monitronics to fund properly its ongoing operations, or increased costs to its customer, which may limit its ability to attract new customers or increase our subscriber attrition rates. In addition, the perception that police departments will not respond to third-party monitored burglar alarms, may reduce customer satisfaction with traditional monitored alarm systems, which may also result in increased attrition rates or decreased customer demand. Although Monitronics has less than 35,000 subscribers in these areas, a more widespread adoption of such a policy or similar policies in other cities or municipalities could materially and adversely affect its business. Monitronics’ business operates in a regulated industry. Monitronics’ business, operations and dealers are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection laws, licensing regulation and other laws and regulations, and, to a lesser extent, similar Canadian laws and regulations. While there are no U.S. federal laws that directly regulate the security alarm monitoring industry, the advertising and sales practices of Monitronics and its dealer network are subject to regulation by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) in addition to state consumer protection laws. The FTC and the Federal Communications Commission have issued regulations that place restrictions on, among other things, unsolicited automated telephone calls to residential and wireless telephone subscribers by means of automatic telephone dialing systems and the use of prerecorded or artificial voice messages. If Monitronics’ dealers were to take actions in violation of these regulations, such as telemarketing to individuals on the “Do Not Call” registry, Monitronics itself could be subject to fines, penalties, private actions or enforcement actions by government regulators. Although Monitronics has taken steps to insulate itself from any such wrongful conduct by its dealers, and to require its dealers to comply with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that Monitronics will not be exposed to liability as result of their dealers’ conduct. Further, to the extent that any changes in law or regulation further restrict the lead generation activity of Monitronics’ dealers, these restrictions could result in a material reduction in subscriber acquisition opportunities, reducing the growth prospects of Monitronics’ business and adversely affecting its financial condition and future cash flows. In addition, most states in which Monitronics operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. Monitronics’ business relies heavily upon wireline and cellular telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline and cellular telephone companies are currently regulated by both federal and state governments. Changes in laws or regulations could require Monitronics to change the way it operates, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any such applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of Monitronics’ operating permits and licenses, including in geographic areas where Monitronics’ services have substantial penetration, which could adversely affect Monitronics’ business and financial condition. Further, if these laws and regulations were to change or Monitronics failed to comply with such laws and regulations as they exist today or in the future, Monitronics’ business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Increased adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to void automatic renewal provisions in the AMAs, or purporting to characterize certain charges in the AMAs as unlawful, could adversely affect Monitronics’ business and operations. The AMAs typically contain provisions automatically renewing the term of the contract at the end of the initial term, unless a cancellation notice is delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract. If the customer cancels prior to the end of the contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, Monitronics may charge the customer the amounts that would have been paid over the remaining term of the contract, or charge an early cancellation fee. Several states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, consumer protection policies or legal precedents which purport to void or substantially limit the automatic renewal provisions of contracts such as the AMAs, or otherwise restrict the charges that can be imposed upon contract cancellation. Such initiatives could negatively impact Monitronics’ business. Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could increase legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed, and the risk that certain customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation. In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have an adverse effect on Monitronics business and operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 