Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred substantial indebtedness that matured on December 31, 2014 and is past due and if a default is called, we could be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. We have very limited funds and we have $2,400,000 of original issue discount senior secured convertible notes that matured on December 31, 2014 and became past due. Such indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets. We are attempting to negotiate with such holders of the notes an extension of the maturity date or an agreement to convert the debt into equity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in reaching satisfactory agreements with holders of the notes or that we will reach agreement at all. Furthermore, our ultimate success depends upon our ability to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If holders of the notes call a default on our indebtedness, then holders of the notes may foreclose on the debt and seize our assets which may force us to suspend or cease operations altogether. The termination of the Share Exchange Agreement prior to completing the business combination could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business and may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. On September 19, 2014, we entered into a Share Exchange Agreement which if closed would have resulted in a business combination with the Parent and SSRG. On March 26, 2015, we mutually terminated the Share Exchange Agreement. We expended substantial management time and costs in the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, documents and other instruments in connection with the Share Exchange Agreement and the costs incurred for the proposed transaction are likely not recoverable. Such termination could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business and may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We have a limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our prospects can be made. We may never achieve profitability. Our operating subsidiary, Magnolia Solar, was organized on January 8, 2008, and has had only limited operations since our inception upon which to evaluate our business prospects. As a result, investors do not have access to the same type of information in assessing their proposed investment as would be available to purchasers in a company with a history of prior operations. Although the technology for solar cells we are commercializing has been developed by Magnolia Optical, a related company which has received federal funding for several projects over the last fourteen years, we face all the risks inherent in a new business, including the expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with conducting operations, including capital requirements and management’s potential underestimation of initial and ongoing costs. We also face the risk that we may not be able to effectively implement our business plan. If we are not effective in addressing these risks, we will not operate profitably and we may not have adequate working capital to meet our obligations as they become due. We have a history of losses and can provide no assurance of our future operating results. We are an early stage company and may not succeed in commercializing any products which will generate revenues. We have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities since inception and we expect such losses and negative cash flows to continue in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had working capital deficit of $(2,766,811) and $(2,505,739), respectively, and stockholders’ deficit of $(2,647,355) and $(2,350,321), respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, we incurred net losses of $(573,718) and $(377,149). We may never achieve profitability. The opinion of our independent registered public accountants on our audited financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 contains an explanatory paragraph regarding substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern . Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon raising capital from financing transactions. We will need significant additional capital, which we may be unable to obtain. We have very limited funds. Our ultimate success may depend upon our ability to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. 9 We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including government grants, joint venture projects and debt or equity financings. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets, both generally and specifically in the renewable energy industry, and the possibility that we may not be profitable during the early years due to spending on the process development for our technology, which could impact the availability or cost of future financings. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. Our products have never been sold on a commercial basis, and we do not know whether they will be accepted by the market. According to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy published in 2014, the installed solar PV capacity was about 140 Gigawatt hours at the end of 2013. Total global production of electricity was about 23,127 terawatt hours in 2013. Thus, at the end of 2013 less than 1 percent electric power came from solar photovoltaic sources. Even with many advances in the solar photovoltaic technology, adoption of solar photovoltaic power technology by energy users remains low and the total solar electricity production capacity remains well below one percent of the world consumption of electricity. Thus, the solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If our products are not accepted by the market, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Moreover, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. The development of a successful market for our proposed products and our ability to sell them at a lower price per watt may be affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: ●failure to produce solar power products that compete favorably against other solar power products on the basis of cost, quality and performance; ●competition from conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind energy; ●failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with suppliers, distributors and strategic partners; and ●customer acceptance of our products. If our proposed products fail to gain sufficient market acceptance, our business plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Our ability to manufacture and distribute commercially viable solar cells is unproven, which could have a detrimental effect on our ability to generate or sustain revenues. The technologies we will use to manufacture solar cells have never been utilized on a commercial basis. Our technology, while intended to create a highly efficient solar cells may never achieve technical or commercial viability. All of the tests conducted to date by us with respect to the technology have been performed in a limited scale environment and the same or similar results may not be obtainable at competitive costs on a large-scale commercial basis. We have never utilized technology under the conditions or in the volumes that will be required for us to be profitable and cannot predict all of the difficulties that may arise. Accordingly, our technology may not perform successfully on a commercial basis and may never generate any revenues or be profitable. If our strategy is unsuccessful, we will not be profitable and our stockholders could lose their investment. There is no guarantee that our strategy will be successful or profitable. If our strategy is unsuccessful, we may fail to meet our objectives and not realize the revenues or profits from the business we pursue, which may cause our value to decrease, thereby potentially causing our stockholders to lose their investment. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth, which would negatively impact our operations. If our business and markets grow and develop it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may face challenges in managing expansion of manufacturing operations to meet projected demand. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause administrative inefficiencies. We may be unable to complete our development, manufacturing and commercialization plans, and the failure to do so will significantly harm our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Commercializing our planned solar modules and processes depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to: ●further product and manufacturing process development; ●development of certain critical tools and production capabilities; 10 ●development and management of our supply chain; ●development and management of our distribution channels; and ●demonstration of efficiencies that will make our products attractively priced; We do not have any history in carrying out any of the foregoing tasks. The current management team has expertise in technology/product development. We plan to hire people with expertise in the abovementioned areas to complement the management team, however our ability to do so will depend on our ability to raise additional capital for which there is no certain assurance. As such, we cannot assure investors that the strategies we intend to employ will enable us to support the large-scale manufacturing of commercially desirable solar modules. We are developing our technology in part from funds from agencies of the U.S. government, and as a result, we are subject to a number of rules and regulations, and our business could be adversely affected by an audit by the U.S. government if it were to identify errors or a failure to comply with regulations. We have been funded in part to develop our solar power technology by various U.S. government agencies. In connection with these funding contracts, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts, which may impose added costs on our business. We are expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Federal False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Act of 1986, the Trade Agreements Act, the Buy American Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, and the Davis Bacon Act. A violation of specific laws and regulations, even if prohibited by our policies, could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, reductions of the value of our contracts, contract modifications or termination, or suspension or debarment from government contracting for a period of time. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. government may terminate any of our government contracts either at its convenience or for default based on performance. A termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. U.S. government agencies may audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Our end products have no toxic materials. However, we use chemicals in the manufacturing process that are widely used by the semiconductor and other industries in producing our finished product. Therefore, we are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of, or human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, and occupational health and safety. We are also subject to environmental laws that allow regulatory authorities to compel, or seek reimbursement for, cleanup of environmental contamination at sites now or formerly owned or operated by us and at facilities where our waste is or has been disposed. We may incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or other costs. Also, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions or non-compliance may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Further, greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of international, national, state and local attention. Although fixture regulations could potentially lead to an increased use of alternative energy, there can be no guarantee that such future regulations will encourage solar technology. Given our limited history of operations, it is difficult to predict future environmental expenses. We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of our senior management, especially Dr. Ashok K. Sood, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Yash R. Puri, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of either Dr. Sood or Dr. Puri, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and motivate our executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. Although we have employment contracts with Dr. Sood and Dr. Puri, if either left us, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and experience. 11 We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. Our strategy envisions a period of potentially rapid growth. We currently maintain nominal administrative and personnel capacity due to the startup nature of our business, and our expected growth may impose a significant burden on our future planned administrative and operational resources. The growth of our business may require significant investments of capital and increased demands on our management, workforce and facilities. We will be required to substantially expand our administrative and operational resources and attract, train, manage and retain qualified management and other personnel. Failure to do so or satisfy such increased demands would interrupt or would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for our solar modules and harm our business plans. The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar electricity could result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and non-solar renewable sources of energy, which would negatively affect the growth of the solar energy industry overall. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar energy is used to supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the utility network, depends significantly on the availability and size of government and economic incentives. Currently the cost of solar electricity substantially exceeds the retail price of electricity in every significant market in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries have provided subsidies in the form of tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and manufacturers of photovoltaic products. Many of these government incentives could expire, phase-out over time, exhaust the allocated funding or require renewal by the applicable authority. Even though the price of electricity from conventional sources continues to rise, a reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar electricity could result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy, which would in turn hurt our sales and financial condition. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our future market share. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency, higher power output and lower price. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce any future market share. The solar power industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. A variety of competing solar power technologies are under development by other companies that could result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected for our solar power products. Our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others, and other technologies may prove more advantageous for the commercialization of solar power products. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we would be unable to generate enough revenues in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. The global solar electricity production capacity remains well below one percent of the world consumption of electricity. Thus, the market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenues in the future to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we intend to target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: ●cost-effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; ●performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; ●success of alternative distributed generation technologies such as fuel cells, wind power and micro turbines; ●fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; ●capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease when the United States or global economy slows; 12 ●continued deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry; and ●availability of government subsidies and incentives. We face intense competition, and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. We operate in a competitive environment that is characterized by price fluctuation and technological change. We compete with major international and domestic companies. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater market recognition and customer bases, longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, purchasing, manufacturing, personnel and other resources than we do. In addition, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of solar and solar-related products than we can. We may be vulnerable to the efforts of electric utility companies lobbying to protect their revenue streams and from competition from solar power systems. Electric utility companies could lobby for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their current revenue streams. Any adverse changes to the regulations and policies of the solar energy industry could deter end-user purchases of solar power products and investment in the research and development of solar power technology. In addition, electricity generated by solar power systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Even though new conventional power plants to meet peak hour electricity demand may require lengthy permitting and construction process, utilities could modify their peak hour pricing policies to such as flat rate pricing. This would require solar power systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity. Any changes to government regulations or utility policies that favor electric utility companies could reduce our competitiveness and cause a significant reduction in demand for our products. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar alternative energy sources may negatively impact our business. There is a general global awareness to reduce emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that harm the environment which is driving the demand for renewable sources of energy. In spite of that, we believe that a customer’s decision to purchase or install solar power capabilities is primarily driven by the cost of electricity from other sources and their anticipated return on investment resulting from solar power systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Changes in utility electric rates or net metering policies could also have a negative effect on our business. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations concerning the electrical utility industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as internal policies and regulations promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the U.S. and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of; or further investment in the research and development of; alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electric gild or for having the capacity to use power from the electric grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase the cost of our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national, state and local laws and ordinances relating to building codes, safely, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. There is also a burden in having to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property Any loss of the right to use our core technology that we license from a related party would adversely impact our business. We license our core technology from Magnolia Optical, a company under the control of our two executive officers and directors, under an exclusive license agreement. The license has an initial term of ten years ending April 30, 2018 and shall automatically continue in effect thereafter unless terminated by either party. The license may be terminated for cause by either party. Any loss of the right to use any of our core technology could result in significant costs to implement work-around methods, and we cannot provide any assurance that any such work-around would be available or technically equivalent to our current technology that we license. If we are unable to implement a commercially viable work around it might cause us to cease operations. 13 If we fail to establish, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our technology, our financial condition, results of operations and business could be negatively impacted. Our ability to establish, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights with respect to our technology will be a significant factor in determining our future financial and operating performance. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on a combination of patent and trade secret laws. We also use confidentiality and other provisions in our agreements that restrict access to and disclosure of its confidential know-how and trade secrets. We have filed patent applications with respect to a number of aspects of our technologies. However, we cannot provide any assurances that any of these applications will ultimately result in issued patents or, if patents are issued, that they will provide sufficient protections for our technology against competitors. Although we have filed patent applications for some of our core technologies, we do not currently hold any issued patents and we may face delays and difficulties in obtaining these patents, or we may not be able to obtain such patents at all. Outside of these patent applications, we seek to protect our technology as trade secrets and technical know-how. However, trade secrets and technical know-how are difficult to maintain and do not provide the same legal protections provided by patents. In particular, only patents will allow us to prohibit others from using independently developed technology that are similar. If competitors develop knowledge substantially equivalent or superior to our trade secrets and technical know-how, or gain access to our knowledge through other means such as observation of our technology that embodies trade secrets at customer sites which we do not control, the value of our trade secrets and technical know-how would be diminished. While we strive to maintain systems and procedures to protect the confidentiality and security of our trade secrets and technical know-how, these systems and procedures may fail to provide an adequate degree of protection. For example, although we generally enter into agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, and strategic partners restricting the disclosure and use of trade secrets, technical know-how and confidential information, we cannot provide any assurance that these agreements will be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure. In addition, some of the technology deployed at customer sites in the future, which we do not control, may be readily observable by third parties who are not under contractual obligations of non-disclosure, which may limit or compromise our ability to continue to protect such technology as a trade secret. While we are not currently aware of any infringement or other violation of our intellectual property rights, monitoring and policing unauthorized use and disclosure of intellectual property is difficult. If we learned that a third party was in fact infringing or otherwise violating our intellectual property, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation relating to our intellectual property may not prove successful and might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Although we have filed patent applications for some of our core technologies, we do not currently hold any issued patents and we may face delays and difficulties in obtaining these patents, or we may not be able to obtain such patents at all. Patents are a key element of our intellectual property strategy. We have several currently pending patent applications in the United States. It may take a long time for any patents to issue from the applications, and we cannot provide any assurance that any additional patents will ultimately be issued or that any patents that have already issued are in a form that will adequately protect our commercial advantage. Our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies is uncertain due to a number of factors, including that we may not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent applications or to file patent applications for these inventions. Further, changes in U.S. and foreign patent law may also impact our ability to successfully prosecute our patent applications. For example, the United States Congress and other foreign legislative bodies may amend their respective patent laws in a manner that makes obtaining patents more difficult or costly. Courts may also render decisions that alter the application of patent laws and detrimentally affect our ability to obtain patent protection. Even for the issued patents or for patents that do ultimately issue from our patent applications, these patents may not provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Patents only provide protection for a 20-year period starting from the filing date and the longer a patent application takes to issue the less time there is to enforce it. Further, the claims under any patents that issue from our applications may not be broad enough to prevent others from developing technologies that are similar or that achieve similar results. It is also possible that the intellectual property rights of others will bar us from licensing our technology and bar us or our future licensees from exploiting any patents that issue from its pending applications. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the fields in which we have developed and are developing our technology. These patents and patent applications might have priority over our patent applications and could subject our patent applications to invalidation. Finally, in addition to those who may claim priority, any patents that issue from our applications may also be challenged by our competitors on the basis that they are otherwise invalid or unenforceable. 14 We may face claims that we are violating the intellectual property rights of others. We may face claims, including from direct competitors, other solar power companies, scientists or research universities, asserting that our technology or the commercial use of such technology infringes or otherwise violates the intellectual property rights of others. We have not conducted infringement, freedom to operate or landscape analyses, and as a result we cannot be certain that our technologies and processes do not violate the intellectual property rights of others. We expect that we may increasingly be subject to such claims as we begin to earn revenues and our market profile grows. We may also face infringement claims from the employees, consultants, agents and outside organizations we have engaged to develop our technology. While we have sought to protect ourselves against such claims through contractual means, we cannot provide any assurance that such contractual provisions are adequate, and any of these parties might claim full or partial ownership of the intellectual property in the technology that they were engaged to develop. If we were found to be infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, we could face significant costs to implement work-around methods, and we cannot provide any assurance that any such work-around would be available or technically equivalent to our current technology. In such cases, we might need to license a third party’s intellectual property, although any required license might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to work around such infringement or obtain a license on acceptable terms, we might face substantial monetary judgments against us or an injunction against continuing to license our technology, which might cause us to cease operations. In addition, even if we are not infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, we could nonetheless incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us for alleged infringement. Also, if any license agreements provide that we will defend and indemnify our customer licensees for claims against them relating to any alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties in connection with such customer licensees’ use of our technologies, we may incur substantial costs defending and indemnifying any customer licensees to the extent they are subject to these types of claims. Such suits, even if without merit, would likely require our management team to dedicate substantial time to addressing the issues presented. Any party bringing claims might have greater resources than we do, which could potentially lead to us settling claims against which we might otherwise prevail on the merits. Any claims brought against us alleging that we have violated the intellectual property of others could have negative consequences for our financial condition, results of operations and business, each of which could be materially adversely affected as a result. Our reliance on government programs to partially fund our research and development programs could impair our ability to commercialize our solar power products and services. Government funding of some of our research and development efforts imposes certain restrictions on our ability to commercialize results and could grant commercialization rights to the government. In some funding awards, the government is entitled to intellectual property rights arising from the related research. Such rights include a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced each subject invention developed under an award throughout the world by or on behalf of the government. Other rights include the right to require us to grant a license to the developed technology or products to a third party or, in some cases, if we refuse, the government may grant the license itself, if the government determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the technology, because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations, or to give the United States industry preference. Accepting government funding can also require that manufacturing of products developed with federal funding be conducted in the United States. Risks Related to our Organization and our Common Stock If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or to prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our reputation and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. As a result, our small size and any current internal control deficiencies may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and access to capital. We have not performed an in-depth analysis to determine if historical un-discovered failures of internal controls exist, and may in the future discover areas of our internal control that need improvement. Public company compliance may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. As a public company, we expect these rules and regulations to increase our compliance costs in 2015 and beyond and to make certain activities more time consuming and costly. As a public company, we also expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, and to maintain insurance at reasonable rates, or at all. 15 Because we became public by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There may be risks associated with us becoming public through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will, in the future, want to conduct any offerings on behalf of our post-reverse merger company. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ●changes in our industry; ●competitive pricing pressures; ●our ability to obtain working capital financing; ●additions or departures of key personnel; ●limited “public float” following the Reverse Merger, in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; ●sales of our common stock; ●our ability to execute our business plan; ●operating results that fall below expectations; ●loss of any strategic relationship; ●regulatory developments; ●economic and other external factors; ●period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and ●inability to develop or acquire new or needed technology. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and the price may not reflect our value and there can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, only a small percentage of our common stock is available to be traded and is held by a small number of holders and the price, if traded, may not reflect our actual or perceived value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. The market liquidity will be dependent on the perception of our operating business, among other things. We may take certain steps including utilizing investor awareness campaigns, press releases, road shows and conferences to increase awareness of our business and any steps that we might take to bring us to the awareness of investors may require we compensate consultants with cash and/or stock. There can be no assurance that there will be any awareness generated or the results of any efforts will result in any impact on our trading volume. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business and trading may be at an inflated price relative to the performance of our company due to, among other things, availability of sellers of our shares. If a market should develop, the price may be highly volatile. Because there may be a low price for our shares of common stock, many brokerage firms or clearing firms may not be willing to effect transactions in the securities or accept our shares for deposit in an account. Even if an investor finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in the shares of our common stock, the combination of brokerage commissions, transfer fees, taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of low priced shares of common stock as collateral for any loans. 16 Our common stock is currently quoted for trading on the OTCQB; however, we cannot be sure that such quotations will continue. As soon as is practicable, we anticipate applying for listing of our common stock on either the NYSE MKT, The NASDAQ Capital Market or other national securities exchange, assuming that we can satisfy the initial listing standards for such exchange. We currently do not satisfy the initial listing standards, and cannot ensure that we will be able to satisfy such listing standards or that our common stock will be accepted for listing on any such exchange. Should we fail to satisfy the initial listing standards of such exchanges, or our common stock is otherwise rejected for listing and remain listed on the OTCQB or suspended from the OTCQB the trading price of our common stock could suffer and the trading market for our common stock may be less liquid and our common stock price may be subject to increased volatility. Furthermore, for companies whose securities are traded in the OTCQB, it is more difficult (1) to obtain accurate quotations, (2) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services generally do not publish press releases about such companies, and (3) to obtain needed capital. Our common stock is be deemed a “penny stock,” which would make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on NYSE MKT, The NASDAQ Stock Market or other national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have tangible net worth of at least $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market upon the expiration of any statutory holding period, under Rule 144, or upon expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Because our directors and executive officers are among our largest stockholders, they can exert significant control over our business and affairs and have actual or potential interests that may depart from those of our other stockholders. Our directors and executive officers own or control a significant percentage of our common stock. Additionally, the holdings of our directors and executive officers may increase in the future upon vesting or other maturation of exercise rights under any of the options or warrants they may hold or in the future be granted or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of our common stock. Our current officers and directors own an aggregate of 16,400,000 shares of our common stock or a total of approximately 40% of the voting power of all our outstanding shares of stock. The interests of such persons may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. As a result, in addition to their board seats and offices, such persons will have significant influence over and control all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: ●to elect or defeat the election of our directors; ●to amend or prevent amendment of our Articles of Incorporation or By-laws; ●to effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and ●to control the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for vote. In addition, such persons’ stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Exercise of options and warrants may have a dilutive effect on our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise of any warrants, options, or any other convertible securities is in excess of the various exercise or conversion prices of such convertible securities, exercise or conversion of such convertible securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Further, any additional financing that we secure may require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and which result in additional dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common stockholders. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 