ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference herein. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of the noted risk categories: (i) Risks Relating to Our Business; and (ii) Risks Relating to Our Separation from iGATE. However, additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely impact our business If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which may limit our ability to increase our prices for services. The IT staffing services industry is highly competitive and served by numerous global, national, regional and local firms. Primary competitors include participants from a variety of market segments, including the major consulting firms, systems consulting and implementation firms, U.S.-based IT staffing services, applications software firms, service groups of computer equipment companies, specialized interest consulting firms, programming companies and temporary staffing firms. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we have. There are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets, and we may face additional competition from new entrants into our markets. In addition, there is a risk that clients may elect to increase their internal resources to satisfy their applications solutions needs. There can be no assurance that we will compete successfully with existing or new competitors in the IT staffing services markets. Lack of success in recruitment and retention of IT professionals may decrease our revenues and increase the costs needed to maintain our workforce. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is labor-intensive. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled IT and brokerage operation professionals and project managers who possess the technical skills and experience necessary to deliver our services. Qualified IT professionals are in demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these qualified professionals will be available to us in sufficient numbers, or that we will be successful in retaining current or future employees. Failure to attract or retain qualified professionals in sufficient numbers may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, we have done much of our recruiting outside of the countries where the client work is performed. Accordingly, any perception among our IT professionals, whether or not well founded, that our ability to assist them in obtaining temporary work visas and permanent residency status has been diminished, could lead to significant employee attrition. Any significant employee attrition will increase expenses necessary to replace and retrain our professionals and could decrease our revenues if we are not able to provide sufficient numbers of these resources to our clients. Government regulation of immigration may materially affect our workforce and limit our supply of qualified IT professionals. We recruit IT professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration laws in the countries in which we operate, particularly the United States. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 50% of our U.S. workforce were working under Mastech sponsored H1-B temporary work permits in the United States. Statutory law limits the number of new H1-B petitions that may be approved in a fiscal year, and if we are unable to obtain H1-B visas for our employees in sufficient quantities or at a sufficient rate for a significant period of time, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, legislation could be enacted limiting H1-B visa holders’ employment with staffing companies. In recent years, the vast majority of our H1-B hires were not subject to the annual quota limiting H1-B visas because they were already in the U.S. in H1-B visa status with another employer. As a result, the negative impact on recruiting due to the exhaustion of the fiscal years 2004 to 2008 H1-B quotas was not substantial. However, unless Congress substantially increases the annual H1-B quota, the pool of H1-B workers in the U.S. who were charged against previous years’ quotas will decline. Such a development would make H1-B worker recruiting more difficult. Absent positive legislation, in the long-term the pool of available H1-B workers in the U.S. that are not subject to the annual quota may eventually be substantially limited. A limitation of H1-B workers could decrease our revenues if we are not able to recruit enough domestic workers to provide sufficient numbers of IT professionals to our clients. 11 Table of Contents Negative economic conditions in the United States and abroad may adversely affect demand for our services. All of our revenues are generated from clients located in the United States. Due to the current economic downturn, there is decreased economic activity in the United States. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our clients. As the economic downturn progresses, companies may be forced to reduce their information technology staffing budgets. Weak economic conditions and reduced budgets may adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenues. We may have difficulty maintaining client relationships if the trend towards utilizing Managed Service Providers continues. Within our retail sales channel, many larger users of IT staffing services are employing Managed Service Providers (“MSP”) to manage their contractor expenses in an effort to drive down overall costs. The impact of this shift towards the MSP model has been to lower our gross margins. Should this trend towards utilizing the MSP model continue, it is likely that our gross margins will be pressured in the future. In addition, if larger users of IT staffing services continue to employ more MSPs, the relationship between us and those larger users may be primarily conducted through MSPs, in which case we may have difficulty maintaining those client relationships because the MSP model uses an MSP as an intermediary between the staffing service provider and the user, and reduces our direct contact with the user. We are increasingly dependent upon our foreign and international operations and there can be no assurance that our international operations will support our growth strategy. Our international recruitment centers depend greatly upon business, immigration and technology transfer laws in their respective countries, and upon the continued development of technology infrastructure. There can be no assurance that our international operations will support our growth strategy. The risks inherent in our international business activities include: • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • foreign currency fluctuations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in managing international operations; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Our failure to manage our growth, attract and retain personnel or a significant interruption of our ability to transmit data via satellite, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to successfully maintain and develop our global recruitment centers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The rupee may increase in value relative to the dollar, increasing our costs. Although we do not receive revenue from abroad, we maintain a significant portion of our recruiting workforce in India, and those employees are paid in rupees. Therefore, any increase in the value of the rupee versus the dollar would increase our expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Wage costs in India may increase, which may reduce our profit margins and reduce a competitive advantage of ours. Our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages with respect to the costs of our Indian recruiting offices. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee 12 Table of Contents compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent or to comply with regulations. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins. Our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant variations. Our revenues and operating results have been historically subject to significant variations from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including the timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during the quarter, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring and attrition, and utilization rates during the quarter. We recognize revenues on time-and-materials projects as the services are performed. Because a percentage of Mastech’s operating costs are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in operating results. Our strategy of expansion through acquisition of additional companies may not be successful and may result in slower growth of our business. We plan to continue to gradually expand our operations through the acquisition of, or investment in, additional businesses and companies. We may be unable to identify businesses that complement our strategy for growth. If we do succeed in identifying a company with such a business, we may not be able to acquire the company, its relevant business or an interest in the company for many reasons, including: • a failure to agree on the terms of the acquisition or investment; • incompatibility between us and the management of the company which we wish to acquire or invest; • competition from other potential acquirers; • a lack of capital to make the acquisition or investment; or • the unwillingness of the company to partner with us. If we are unable to acquire and invest in attractive businesses, our strategy for growth may be impaired. Even if we are able to complete one or more acquisitions, there can be no assurance that those completed acquisitions will result in successful growth, and the costs in completing an acquisition may reduce our margins. Our revenues are highly concentrated, and the loss of a significant client would adversely affect our business and revenues. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States, as well as clients concentrated in certain industries, and economic slowdowns, changes in U.S. law and other restrictions or factors that affect the economic health of these industries may affect our business. In the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 66% of our revenues were derived from our top ten clients. Consequently, if our clients reduce or postpone their IT spending significantly, this may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Further, any significant decrease in the rate of economic growth in the U.S. may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, approximately 46% of our total revenue is derived from the financial services and health care industry sectors. Because our revenues are highly concentrated in those sectors, any significant or prolonged downturn in either industry sector could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have in the past derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of clients. Our largest three clients, IBM, TEK Systems, and Wachovia Securities accounted for approximately 15%, 13% and 11% of our 2008 revenues, respectively. All three of these contracts are terminable without penalty, as are most of our assignments. The loss of any significant client or major project, or an unanticipated termination of a major project, could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues. 13 Table of Contents In order to continue to achieve success, we must develop new solutions that keep pace with the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry. The IT staffing services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product introductions. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop solutions that keep pace with industry developments. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these developments on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by others will not render our services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A significant number of organizations are attempting to migrate business applications to advanced technologies. As a result, our ability to remain competitive will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to develop, train and hire employees with skills in advanced technologies. Our failure to hire, train and retain employees with such skills could have a material adverse impact on our future revenues. Our “preferred vendor” contracts generally result in lower margins. In addition, we may not be able to maintain “preferred vendor” status with existing clients or obtain that status with new clients, which may lead to a decrease in the volume of business we obtain from these clients. We are party to several “preferred vendor” contracts, and we are seeking additional similar contracts in order to obtain new or additional business from large and medium-sized clients. Clients enter into these contracts to reduce the number of vendors and obtain better pricing in return for a potential increase in the volume of business to the preferred vendor. While these contracts are expected to generate higher volumes, they generally result in lower margins. Although we attempt to lower costs to maintain margins, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain margins on such contracts. In addition, the failure to be designated a preferred vendor, or the loss of such status, may preclude us from providing services to existing or potential clients, except as a subcontractor, which could have a material adverse effect on the volume of business obtained from such clients. Our success depends upon the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property rights and processes, and any substantial costs incurred protecting such rights and processes may decrease our margins. Our success depends in part upon certain methodologies and tools we use in designing, developing and implementing applications systems and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In the event of an unfavorable resolution of a dispute over our intellectual property rights, we may incur substantial costs or liabilities, which would decrease our margins. Our ownership is highly concentrated in two individuals and the interests of those individual shareholders may not coincide with yours. Sunil Wadhwani and Ashok Trivedi, co-founders of iGATE, own approximately 57% of Mastech’s outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi together have sufficient voting power to elect all the members of the Board of Directors and to effect transactions without the approval of our other public shareholders, except for those limited transactions that require a supermajority vote under our bylaws or articles of incorporation. The interests of Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi may from time to time diverge from our interests. Mastech’s Audit Committee consist of independent directors and addresses certain potential conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise between us and our directors, officers or our other affiliates. However, there can be no assurance that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. 14 Table of Contents Our business is certified as a minority-owned business, and loss of that certification may reduce our ability to gain new customers or expand our business with existing customers. We are a large minority-owned IT staffing firm, and have received multiple awards for our commitment to diversity, including being ranked amongst the Top Three Diversity-owned IT Staffing Firms by Staffing Industry Analysts in 2007. We have been certified as minority-owned by the National Minority Supplier Development Council (the “NMSDC”), and NMSDC certification has enabled us to expand our business with existing clients as well as obtain new customers and penetrate new markets. The loss of minority-owned business status may adversely affect our ability to expand our business or cause us to lose existing business. Because the NMSDC certification relies in large part upon Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi maintaining their positions as the collective majority holders of our common stock, any decrease in their collective ownership may jeopardize our status as a minority-owned business. There can be no assurance that Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi will maintain their majority position in the company. We may be subject to liability to clients arising from our engagements. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from errors, mistakes, omissions or negligent acts in rendering our services, there can be no assurance that our attempts to limit liability will be successful. Our failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and, therefore, could give rise to claims against us or damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to the Separation Prior to the fourth quarter of 2008, we had no history as a separate public company. Prior to the Distribution, we had no operating history as a separate public company. The historical financial statements prior to the Distribution do not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. The Distribution may have negative consequences on our effective tax rate. Following the separation and distribution, Mastech will not be able to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with iGATE. As a consequence, certain tax benefits and deductions arising from being part of the larger iGATE group will not be available to us. Accordingly, this situation will result in a higher effective tax rate for Mastech as a stand alone organization. Our directors and officers who own iGATE securities may have a conflict of interest. The ownership by our executive officers and some of our directors of shares of common stock, options or other equity awards of iGATE may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their current or former positions with iGATE, certain of our executive officers, and some of our non-employee directors, own shares of iGATE common stock, options to purchase shares of iGATE common stock or other equity awards. The individual holdings of iGATE common stock, options to purchase common stock of iGATE or other equity awards, may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons’ total assets. Even though Mastech’s Board of Directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent from iGATE, ownership by our directors and officers of common stock or options to purchase common stock of iGATE, or any other equity awards, creates, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for iGATE than the decisions have for us. 15 Table of Contents If the Distribution receives unfavorable tax treatment, then we, our shareholders, or iGATE may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes. If the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we, our shareholders, or iGATE may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes. Prior to the Distribution, iGATE received an opinion of Reed Smith LLP, tax counsel to iGATE, substantially to the effect that the Distribution should qualify as a tax-free Distribution within the meaning of Section 355(a) of the Code. The opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by iGATE and us which, if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. In addition, the Reed Smith opinion will not be binding on the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or the courts, and the IRS may assert a position contrary to the opinion, and a court may agree with the IRS’s position. If the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, each iGATE shareholder who received Mastech common stock in the Distribution generally would be treated as having received a taxable Distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of Mastech’s common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the shareholder) on the Distribution date. That Distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder’s ratable share of iGATE’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (as increased to reflect any current income, including any gain recognized by iGATE on the taxable Distribution). The balance, if any, of the Distribution would be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the iGATE shareholder’s tax basis in its iGATE stock with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. In addition, iGATE would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock distributed to iGATE shareholders over iGATE’s adjusted tax basis in such common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction and such failure was not the result of actions taken after the Distribution by iGATE or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders, we would be responsible for all taxes imposed on iGATE as a result thereof. The transition to the new Mastech brand could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients and recruit and retain employees. When we operated as a business unit of iGATE, we marketed our products and services using the “iGATE” brand name and logo. We believe the association with iGATE has provided us with preferred status among our clients and employees due to iGATE’s: • globally recognized brand; • perceived high-quality products and services; and • strong capital base and financial strength. In connection with the separation and distribution, we changed our corporate name and operate under a new brand name. Without the iGATE brand name, we may not be able to maintain or enjoy comparable name recognition or status under our new brand. The iGATE brand and our affiliation with iGATE have also been key aspects of our recruitment and retention of our employees. Our separation from iGATE could also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain senior management and other key employees. If we are unable to successfully manage the transition of our business to our new brand, the benefit we offer our clients and employees of having a recognized brand will be reduced, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. We cannot predict the effect that our separation from iGATE will have on our clients and our employees. 16 Table of Contents We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the Distribution. Our ability to engage in significant stock transactions could be limited or restricted after the Distribution in order to preserve the tax-free nature of the Distribution. Even if the Distribution otherwise qualifies as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355(a) of the Code, it would be taxable to iGATE (but not to iGATE shareholders) under Section 355(e) of the Code if the Distribution were deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquired, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest, by vote or value, in the stock of either us or iGATE. Current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption that the Distribution was part of such a plan (or series of related transactions), if either Mastech or iGATE were to engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or value, in Mastech’s or iGATE’s stock ownership during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the Distribution, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the Distribution. Treasury regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether an acquisition transaction and a Distribution are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the Treasury regulations. In addition, the Treasury regulations provide several “safe harbors” for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. These rules may prevent Mastech from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to their respective shareholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities. Thus, even if the Distribution were to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355(a) of the Code, if acquisitions of our stock after the Distribution were to cause Section 355(e) of the Code to apply, iGATE would recognize taxable gain as described above, but the Distribution would be tax-free to each iGATE shareholder (except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of Mastech common stock). The Tax Sharing Agreement includes covenants that we will not take actions that could cause the Distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, including, in certain cases, redeeming equity securities, selling or otherwise disposing of a substantial portion of our assets or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities (or entering into negotiations or agreements with respect to such transactions), in each case, for a period of 24 months from the day after the Distribution. We, however, may undertake any such action if we first obtain the consent of iGATE or an opinion of counsel or a private letter ruling that such action will not adversely affect any conclusion in the Reed Smith opinion issued in connection with the Distribution. Moreover, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that we will be responsible for any taxes imposed on iGATE as a result of the failure of the Distribution to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355(a) of the Code where such failure is not attributable to actions taken by iGATE, its subsidiaries or its shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 17 Table of Contents 