ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following risk factors in evaluating our results of operations, financial condition, business and operations or an investment in our stock. Although we describe below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K the risks we consider to be the most material, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition, business or operations in the future. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the events described below, individually or in combination, were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Factors Relating to Our Corporate History and Strategy We have substantially changed the businesses in which we operate. Accordingly, it may be difficult to evaluate our performance based on our operating history. Our financial statements for periods prior to February 2011 include the financial position and results of operations of the business units formerly operated by AMG. We completed the sale of all of these businesses on or before February 28, 2011 and shut-down the last of these businesses in June 2011. The businesses of AMG, accordingly, are reflected as discontinued operations in our financial statements. We acquired our current principal operating subsidiary, Monitronics, on December 17, 2010. Hence, the results of operations of Monitronics are only included in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 with respect to the stub period December 17, 2010 through December 31, 2010, and for the year ended December 31, 2011. We had previously included in our Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed December 28, 2010 and Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 14, 2011, the following: · the audited consolidated financial statements of Monitronics for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, and for the three months ended June 30, 2010; · the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Monitronics for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009; · an unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2010, giving effect to the acquisition of Monitronics and the dispositions of the Creative/Media and Content Distribution businesses, on a pro forma basis, as if such transactions had occurred on that date; and · an unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2009, giving effect to the acquisition of Monitronics and the dispositions of the Creative/Media and Content Distribution businesses, on a pro forma basis, as if such transactions had occurred on January 1, 2009. However, the historical financial information of Monitronics included in these reports generally reflect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows with respect to time periods during which it was a stand-alone entity, rather than part of a public company, and may not necessarily reflect what such results would have been if Monitronics had been a subsidiary of our company during the periods presented. Moreover, the unaudited pro forma financial 12 Table of Contents statements included in the December 2010 report do not purport to represent, and are not necessarily indicative of, what our financial position or results of operations would have been had such transactions occurred on the dates indicated. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. The primary AMG business unit, which was disposed of in February 2011, incurred losses in each of the five fiscal years preceding its sale, and Monitronics incurred losses in each of its last three full fiscal years. In future periods, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a consistent quarterly or annual basis. Failure to maintain profitability in future periods may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our acquisition strategy may not be successful. One focus of our corporate strategy is to seek opportunities to grow free cash flow through strategic acquisitions, which may include leveraged acquisitions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate that strategy, and if we are not able to invest our capital in acquisitions that are accretive to free cash flow it could negatively impact the growth of our primary operating business. Our ability to consummate such acquisitions may be negatively impacted by various factors, including among other things: · failure to identify attractive acquisition candidates on acceptable terms; · competition from other bidders; · inability to raise any required financing; and · antitrust or other regulatory restrictions, including any requirements that may be imposed by government agencies as a condition to any required regulatory approval. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business strategy includes the future acquisition of businesses that we believe are strategically attractive and that we expect will be accretive to consolidated free cash flow. If we undertake any acquisition, the process of operating such acquired business on a stand-alone basis, or, if applicable, of integrating any acquired business with Monitronics, may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Future acquisitions could reduce our current stockholders’ ownership percentage, cause us to incur debt and expose us to liabilities. Further, we may incur significant expenditures and devote substantial management time and attention in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. Lastly, while we intend to implement appropriate controls and procedures as we integrate any acquired companies, we may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies’ disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting within the time periods required by United States federal securities laws and regulations. We are a holding company and derive substantially all of our revenue and cash flow from our primary operating subsidiary, Monitronics. Monitronics and its subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. The ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is subject to, among other things, their compliance with covenants in their respective credit agreements, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, and applicable state laws. As of December 31, 2011, Monitronics had consolidated indebtedness of $952,718,000 (including the current portion of long-term debt of $60 million). Claims of creditors of Monitronics and its subsidiaries have priority as to the assets of these companies over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. See the risk factors relating to Monitronics titled, “The terms of Monitronics’ securitization facility limit its access to the cash generated by a substantial portion of its alarm monitoring contracts,” and “If we do not refinance or repay the existing Monitronics securitization facility by July 2012, our borrowing costs under that facility will increase substantially and Monitronics’ access to the cash of its subsidiaries will be significantly reduced.” An inability to access capital markets at attractive rates could materially increase our expenses. Although we currently have sufficient cash and investments available to meet our anticipated capital requirements for the 13 Table of Contents foreseeable future, we may in the future require access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for investments and expenditures. In any such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If our ability to access required capital were to become significantly constrained, we could incur material borrowing costs, our financial condition could be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. We may have substantial indemnification obligations under certain inter-company agreements we entered into in connection with the spin-off of our company from Discovery Holding Company (“DHC”), a subsidiary of Discovery Communications, Inc. Pursuant to our tax sharing agreement with DHC, we have agreed to be responsible for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). We have also agreed to be responsible for and indemnify DHC with respect to (i) certain taxes attributable to DHC or any of its subsidiaries (other than Discovery Communications, LLC) and (ii) all taxes arising as a result of the spin-off (subject to specified exceptions). Our indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. Pursuant to the reorganization agreement we entered into with DHC in connection with the spin-off, we assumed certain indemnification obligations designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all non-tax liabilities that may exist relating to the business of our former subsidiary, AMG, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as certain obligations of DHC. Any indemnification payments under the tax sharing agreement or the reorganization agreement could be substantial. Factors Relating to our Common Stock It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, and a Series C that, except in such limited circumstances as may be required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights; · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · classifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest or exercise of voting rights; · limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent (subject to certain exceptions), thereby requiring such action to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders; · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; · requiring shareholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation; · requiring the consent of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Series B Common Stock (voting as a separate class) to certain share distributions and other corporate actions in which the voting power of the Series B Common Stock would be diluted, for example by issuing shares having multiple votes per share as a dividend to holders of Series A common stock; and 14 Table of Contents · the existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. In addition, John C. Malone, a member of our board of directors and our largest shareholder in terms of voting power, beneficially owns shares of our common stock that represent approximately 30% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding common stock. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan in order to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan is designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of our company, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of our company in a transaction that our shareholders may find favorable. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our shareholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common shareholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of shareholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders. Our Series B Common Stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which is often characterized by volatility and illiquidity. The OTC Bulletin Board tends to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Bulletin Board as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations, and market conditions. The potential for illiquidity and volatility with respect to our Series B Common Stock may also be exacerbated by the relatively small number of shares of our Series B Common Stock held by persons other than our officers and directors and the relatively small number of such unaffiliated shareholders. Factors relating to Monitronics Monitronics faces risks in acquiring and integrating new subscribers. The acquisition of alarm monitoring agreements (“AMAs”) by Monitronics involves a number of risks, including the risk that the purchased AMAs may not be profitable due to higher than expected account attrition, lower than expected revenues from the AMAs or lower than expected recoveries from dealers when applicable. The purchase price Monitronics pays a dealer for an AMA is affected by the monthly recurring revenue generated by the AMA, as well as several other factors, including the level of competition, its prior experience with AMAs purchased from the dealer, the number of AMAs purchased, the subscriber’s credit score and the type of security equipment used by the subscriber. To the extent that the servicing costs or the attrition rates are higher than expected or the revenues from the AMAs or the recoveries from dealers, when applicable, are lower than expected, Monitronics’ business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Monitronics is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its subscribers. Substantially all of Monitronics’ revenues are derived from the recurring monthly revenue due from subscribers under the AMAs. Monitronics is therefore dependent on the ability and willingness of subscribers to pay amounts due under the AMAs on a monthly basis in a timely manner. Although subscribers are contractually obligated to pay amounts due under an AMA and are prohibited from canceling the AMA for the initial term of the AMA (typically three years), subscribers’ payment obligations to Monitronics are unsecured, which could impair the ability of Monitronics to collect any unpaid amounts from its subscribers. To the extent defaults by subscribers of their obligations under the AMAs are greater than anticipated, Monitronics’ business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Monitronics relies on a significant number of its subscribers remaining with it as subscribers for an extended period of time. Monitronics pays a significant upfront purchase price for each new subscriber. It requires a substantial amount of time, typically exceeding the initial term of the related AMA, for it to receive cash payments (net of its variable cash operating costs) from a particular subscriber that are sufficient to offset this upfront cost. Accordingly, Monitronics’ long-term performance is dependent on its subscribers remaining with it as subscribers for as long as possible. This requires Monitronics to minimize its rate of subscriber cancellations, or attrition. Factors that can increase cancellations include subscribers who relocate and do not reconnect, problems with service quality, competition from other alarm monitoring companies, equipment obsolescence, adverse economic conditions and the affordability of its service. If Monitronics fails to keep the subscribers for a sufficiently long period of time, attrition rates would be higher than expected and Monitronics’ financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Monitronics is subject to credit risk and other risks associated with its dealers. Under the standard alarm monitoring purchase agreement (“AMPA”) that Monitronics enters into with its dealers, if an AMA terminates its service with Monitronics during the first twelve months after the AMA has been purchased, the dealer is typically required to elect between substituting another AMA for the terminating AMA or compensating Monitronics in an amount based on the original purchase price of the terminating AMA. Monitronics is subject to the risk that dealers will breach their obligation to provide a comparable substitute AMA for a terminating AMA. Although Monitronics withholds specified amounts from the purchase price paid to dealers for AMAs (holdback), which may be used to satisfy or offset these and other applicable dealer obligations under the AMPA, there can be no guarantee that these amounts will be sufficient to satisfy or offset the full extent of the default by a dealer of its obligations under an AMPA. If the holdback does prove insufficient to cover dealer obligations, Monitronics is also subject to the credit risk that the dealers may not have sufficient funds to compensate Monitronics when substitute AMAs are unavailable or that any such dealer will otherwise breach its obligation to compensate Monitronics for a terminating AMA. To the extent defaults by dealers of their obligations under the AMPAs are greater than anticipated, Monitronics’ financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The alarm monitoring business is subject to macroeconomic factors that may negatively impact Monitronics’ results of operations, including prolonged downturns in the housing market. The alarm monitoring business is dependent in part on national, regional and local economic conditions. In particular, where disposable income available for discretionary spending is reduced (such as by higher housing, energy, interest or other costs or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), the alarm monitoring business could experience increased attrition rates and reduced consumer demand. In mid-2007 an extreme downturn began in the credit markets and other financial markets in the United States resulting in a decline in business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment and precipitating a deep economic recession with what currently appears to be a slow recovery. Although Monitronics has continued to grow its business during this downturn, no assurance can be given that it will be able to continue acquiring quality AMAs or that it will not begin to experience higher attrition rates. Further, the housing market in the United States continues to be particularly adversely affected by the economic recession and has not improved at the same pace as other aspects of the economy. Any further deterioration in new construction and sales of existing single family homes could reduce opportunities to make sales of new security systems and services and reduce opportunities to take over existing security systems that had previously 16 Table of Contents been monitored by Monitronics’ competitors. If macroeconomic conditions in the United States do not improve or materially worsen, Monitronics’ financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions in States where Monitronics’ subscribers are more heavily concentrated may negatively impact Monitronics’ results of operations. Even as economic conditions may improve in the United States as a whole, this improvement may not occur or further deterioration may occur in the regions where Monitronics’ subscribers are more heavily concentrated (such as Texas, California, Florida and Arizona). Although Monitronics has a geographically diverse subscriber base, adverse conditions in one or more States where Monitronics’ business is more heavily concentrated could have a significant adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations. If the insurance industry were to change its practice of providing incentives to homeowners for the use of alarm monitoring services, Monitronics’ may experience a reduction in new customer growth or an increase in its subscriber attrition rate. It has been common practice in the insurance industry to provide a reduction in rates for policies written on homes that are covered by alarm monitoring contracts. There can be no assurance that insurance companies will continue to offer these rate reductions. If these incentives were reduced or eliminated, new homeowners who otherwise may not feel the need for alarm monitoring services would be removed from Monitronics’ potential customer pool, which could hinder the growth of Monitronics’ business, and existing subscribers may choose to disconnect or not renew their service contracts, which could increase Monitronics’ attrition rates. In either case, Monitronics’ results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Risks of liability from Monitronics’ business and operations may be significant. The nature of the services provided by Monitronics potentially exposes it to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. If subscribers believe that they incurred losses as a result of an action or a failure to act by Monitronics, the subscribers could bring claims against Monitronics, and Monitronics has been subject to lawsuits of this type from time to time. Similarly, if dealers believe that they incurred losses or were denied rights under the AMPAs as a result of an action or a failure to act by Monitronics, the dealers could bring claims against Monitronics. Substantially all of Monitronics’ AMAs and AMPAs contain provisions limiting Monitronics’ liability to subscribers and dealers, respectively, in an attempt to reduce this risk. However, in the event of any such litigation, no assurance can be given that these limitations will be enforced, and the costs of such litigation or the related settlements or judgments could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that Monitronics is adequately insured for these risks. Certain of its insurance policies and the laws of some States may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages or liability arising from gross negligence. If significant uninsured damages are assessed against Monitronics, the resulting liability could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ financial condition. Future litigation could result in adverse publicity for Monitronics. In the ordinary course of business, from time to time, Monitronics is the subject of complaints or litigation from subscribers, sometimes related to alleged violations of state consumer protection statutes, negligent dealer installation and negligent service of alarm monitoring systems. Monitronics may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, alleged discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination claims. In addition to diverting Monitronics’ management resources, adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially and adversely affect Monitronics’ reputation in the communities it services, regardless of whether such allegations are unfounded. Such adverse publicity could result in higher attrition rates and greater difficulty in attracting new subscribers on terms that are attractive to Monitronics or at all. A disruption to Monitronics’ monitoring facility and its back-up monitoring facility could adversely affect its business. A disruption to both the monitoring facility and the back-up monitoring facility could affect Monitronics’ ability to provide alarm monitoring services to its subscribers. A disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, transportation interruption, malicious acts or terrorism. Monitronics has taken reasonable precautions to mitigate this risk, and its main monitoring facility holds Underwriters’ Laboratories listings as protective signaling services stations and maintains certain standards of building integrity, redundant computer and 17 Table of Contents communications facilities and backup power, among other safeguards. However, no assurance can be given that both of Monitronics’ monitoring facilities will not be impacted by a disruption, including one from a catastrophic event or natural disaster. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business. Monitronics relies on third parties to transmit signals to its monitoring facilities. Monitronics relies on various third-party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to its monitoring facilities in a timely and consistent manner. These telecommunications providers and signal processing centers could fail to transmit or communicate these signals to the monitoring facilities for many reasons, including due to disruptions from fire, natural disasters, weather, transmission interruption, malicious acts or terrorism. The failure of one or more of these telecommunications providers or signal processing centers to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facilities in a timely manner could affect Monitronics’ ability to provide alarm monitoring services to its subscribers. There can be no assurance that third-party telecommunications providers and signal processing centers will continue to transmit and communicate signals to the monitoring facilities without disruption. Any such disruption, particularly one of a prolonged duration, could have a material adverse effect on Monitronics’ business. The alarm monitoring business is subject to technological innovation over time. Monitronics’ monitoring services depend upon the technology (both hardware and software) of security alarm systems located at subscribers’ premises. Monitronics may be required to implement new technology either to attract and retain subscribers or in response to changes in land-line or cellular technology or other factors, which could require significant expenditures. To the extent competitors of Monitronics have greater capital and other resources to dedicate to responding to technological innovation over time, the products and services offered by Monitronics may become less attractive to current or future subscribers thereby reducing demand for their products and services and increasing attrition over time. Those competitors that benefit from the capital available to them as part of an affiliated group of companies may be at a particular advantage to Monitronics in this respect. If Monitronics is unable to adapt in response to changing technologies, market conditions or customer requirements in a timely manner, such inability could adversely affect Monitronics’ business by increasing its rate of subscriber attrition. Monitronics also faces potential competition from improvements in self-monitoring systems, which enable current or future subscribers to monitor their home environments without third-party involvement, which could further increase attrition rates over time and hinder the acquisition of new AMAs. Shifts in customer selection of telecommunications services could adversely impact Monitronics’ financial condition. Monitronics’ operating model relies to some degree on its subscribers’ continued use of traditional, land-line telecommunications services, which Monitronics uses to communicate with monitoring equipment at the subscribers’ locations. Although Monitronics’ offers alarm systems that can communicate signals to the monitoring facility using various wireless and/or internet-based communication technologies, such solutions are presently more expensive than alarm communicators based on the traditional land-line network. In order to continue to service existing subscribers who cancel their land-line telecommunications services and to service new customers who do not subscribe to land-line telecommunications services, subscribers may be required to upgrade to more expensive technologies. Higher costs may reduce the market for new customers of alarm monitoring services, and the trend away from traditional land-lines to alternatives may mean more existing subscribers will cancel service with Monitronics. Continued shifts in customer preferences regarding telecommunications services could have a material and adverse impact on Monitronics’ subscriber attrition rates and financial condition. A loss of experienced employees could adversely affect Monitronics. The success of Monitronics has been largely dependent upon the active participation of its officers and employees. The loss of the services of key members of Monitronics’ management for any reason may have a material adverse effect on the operations of Monitronics and the ability of Monitronics to maintain and grow its business. Monitronics depends on the managerial skills and expertise of its management and employees to provide customer service by, among other things, monitoring and responding to alarm signals, coordinating equipment repairs, administering billing and collections under the AMAs and administering and providing dealer services under the AMPAs. There is no assurance that Monitronics will be able to retain its current 18 Table of Contents management and other experienced employees or replace them satisfactorily to the extent they leave the employ of Monitronics. The loss of any such experienced employees’ services and expertise could materially and adversely affect Monitronics’ business. The high level of competition in Monitronics’ industry could adversely affect its business. The security alarm monitoring industry is highly competitive and fragmented. As of December 31, 2011, Monitronics was the third largest alarm monitoring company in the United States when measured by the total number of subscribers under contract. Monitronics faces competition from other alarm monitoring companies, including companies that have more capital than it has and that may offer higher prices and more favorable terms to dealers for AMAs purchased or charge lower prices for its monitoring services. Monitronics also faces competition from a significant number of small regional competitors that concentrate their capital and other resources in targeting local markets and from new marketing channels that may displace the existing alarm system dealer channels for acquiring AMAs. This competition could reduce the acquisition opportunities available to Monitronics, thus slowing its rate of growth, or requiring it to increase the price it pays for such AMAs, thus reducing its return on investment and negatively impacting its revenues and results of operations. Monitronics’ credit facility and securitization facility impose many restrictions. The agreements governing Monitronics’ indebtedness restrict our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends and make distributions; · issue common and preferred stock of any future subsidiaries; · make certain investments; · create liens; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · merge or consolidate; · transfer and sell assets; and · acquire certain types of alarm monitoring contracts. Monitronics must also comply with certain financial covenants under the credit facility and the securitization facility. Credit facility covenants include those that relate to capital expenditure limits, maximum total Monitronics debt to EBITDA (as defined therein), maximum Monitronics fixed charge coverage ratio, and if we have not refinanced the securitization facility by June 30, 2012, a maximum recurring revenue leverage ratio. Securitization covenants include maximum total Monitronics debt to EBITDA ratio, a debt interest coverage ratio, attrition rate maximums and average recurring monthly revenue minimums. If Monitronics cannot comply with any of these financial covenants, it may not be able to make additional draw downs under the revolving credit facility. In addition, failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the credit facility or the securitization facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in the acceleration of a substantial amount of indebtedness. The terms of Monitronics’ securitization facility limit its access to the cash generated by a substantial portion of its alarm monitoring contracts. The long-term debt of Monitronics at December 31, 2011, includes $838 million in principal in secured notes under a securitization facility. These notes were issued by Monitronics Funding LP, a subsidiary of Monitronics, which we refer to as “Funding”. Pursuant to the terms of the securitization facility, alarm monitoring contracts for approximately 616,000 of Monitronics subscriber accounts are owned by Funding, representing approximately 87% of the total number of subscriber accounts of Monitronics and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011. Such alarm monitoring agreements, and the monthly recurring revenue and other proceeds thereof, are pledged as collateral to secure the obligations of Funding under the securitization facility. As a result of this arrangement, the cash generated by these accounts is not available for distribution up to Monitronics and is instead used for the payment of servicing fees to Monitronics Security LP (another subsidiary of Monitronics, which we refer to as “Security”), interest payments, and the purchase of new alarm monitoring contracts, and the payment of a marketing fee to Monitronics. Any new alarm monitoring contracts acquired with these funds must be pledged as collateral to the securitization debt. The securitization facility also requires that Funding maintain a portion of its cash in an interest reserve account. At 19 Table of Contents December 31, 2011, Funding held approximately $51 million in restricted cash, of which $28 million was held in an interest reserve account and $23 million was held in satisfaction of its other obligations under the securitization facility. Absent the repayment or refinancing of the securitization facility, Monitronics will not have access to the cash generated by the alarm monitoring contracts that support the securitization facility. While we expect Monitronics will be able to refinance or amend the terms of the securitization facility, there can be no assurances that such a refinancing or amendment will be available to Monitronics on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we do not refinance or repay the existing Monitronics securitization facility by July 2012, our borrowing costs under that facility will increase substantially and Monitronics’ access to the cash of its subsidiaries will be significantly reduced. If Monitronics does not refinance the securitization facility by July 2012, additional interest will begin to accrue at the rate of 5% per annum (including 0.5% of fees) on the two variable funding notes under the securitization facility, which have an aggregate principal balance of $288 million. The effective interest rate payable by the Company under $550 million notional amount of swaps relating to the term notes under the securitization facility would also increase by 5% per annum (including 0.5% of fees) beginning July 2012. Although such additional interest will not be payable in cash until all the securitization debt has been paid off, the increased leverage resulting from the accrual of such additional interest could reduce the amount of additional financing available to Monitronics and may therefore reduce Monitronics’ ability to acquire new subscriber accounts. Also, under the terms of the securitization facility, Funding currently pays Security for monitoring and servicing the subscriber accounts owned by Funding, at an effective rate of $12.00 per active subscriber account per month plus reimbursement for field service costs related to customer moves and certain cellular monitoring costs. As such fees exceed the aggregate out-of-pocket cost to Security of monitoring and servicing these subscriber accounts, the amount of this excess is available currently for distribution to Monitronics and may be used for other corporate purposes, including the purchase of additional subscriber accounts outside of the securitization facility. Funding also pays Monitronics a dealer marketing fee of 1.5x recurring monthly revenue for new alarm monitoring contracts purchased by Funding. Under the terms of the securitization facility, beginning July 2012, the amount of the monthly servicing fees payable by Funding to Security will decrease from a rate of $12.00 per active subscriber account per month to $7.50 per active subscriber account per month and the reimbursement for customer moves and cellular costs will be eliminated. Furthermore, the dealer marketing fee will be eliminated since Funding will no longer be permitted to purchase alarm monitoring contracts. These reductions will instead be used to make principal repayments at Funding and will substantially reduce or eliminate the excess cash that has been available at Security for distribution to Monitronics as well as the dealer marketing fee currently distributed to Monitronics. If Monitronics does not repay or refinance the securitization facility by July 2012, the decrease in servicing fees and elimination of marketing fees could have a substantially adverse effect on its liquidity and reduce the capital resources available to Monitronics for purchasing AMAs. While we expect Monitronics will be able to refinance or amend the terms of the securitization facility before July 2012, there can be no assurances that such a refinancing or amendment will be available to Monitronics on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may be unable to obtain additional funds to grow Monitronics’ business. Monitronics intends to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of subscriber accounts through its authorized dealer program, among other means. To continue its growth strategy, Monitronics may be required to make additional draw downs under its credit facility, seek financing through new credit arrangements or the possible sale of new securities or refinance its existing securitization facility, any of which may lead to higher leverage or result in higher borrowing costs. An inability to obtain funding through external financing sources on favorable terms or at all is likely to adversely affect Monitronics’ ability to continue or accelerate its subscriber account acquisition activities. Third party claims with respect to Monitronics’ intellectual property, if decided against Monitronics, may result in competing uses of Monitronics’ intellectual property or require the adoption of new, non-infringing intellectual property. Monitronics has received and may continue to receive notices claiming it committed intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other intellectual property violations and third parties have claimed, and may, in the future, claim that Monitronics does not own or have rights to use all intellectual property rights used in the conduct of its business. While Monitronics does not believe that any of the currently outstanding claims are material, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert future infringement claims against Monitronics or claims that 20 Table of Contents Monitronics’ rights to its intellectual property are invalid or unenforceable, and Monitronics cannot guarantee that these claims will be unsuccessful. Any claims involving rights to use the “Monitronics” mark could have a material adverse effect on the alarm monitoring business, if such claims were decided against Monitronics and it were precluded from using or licensing the “Monitronics” mark or others were allowed to use it. If Monitronics were required to adopt a new name, it would entail marketing costs in connection with building up recognition and goodwill in such new name. In the event that Monitronics was enjoined from using any of its other intellectual property, there would be costs associated with the replacement of such intellectual property with developed, acquired or licensed intellectual property. There would also be costs associated with the defense and settlement of any infringement or misappropriation allegations and any damages that may be awarded. Factors relating to Regulatory Matters “False Alarm” ordinances could adversely affect Monitronics’ business and operations. Significant concern has arisen in certain municipalities about the high incidence of false alarms. In some localities, this concern has resulted in local ordinances or policies that restrict police response to third-party monitored burglar alarms. In addition, an increasing number of local governmental authorities have considered or adopted various measures aimed at reducing the number of false alarms, including: · subjecting alarm monitoring companies to fines or penalties for transmitting false alarms; · imposing fines on alarm monitoring services customers for false alarms; · imposing limitations on the number of times the police will respond to alarms at a particular location; and · requiring further verification of an alarm signal, such as visual verification or verification to two different phone numbers, before the police will respond. Enactment of these measures could adversely affect Monitronics’ future operations and business. For example, numerous cities or metropolitan areas have implemented verified response ordinances for residential and commercial burglar alarms. A verified response policy means that police officers generally do not respond to an alarm until someone else (e.g., the resident, a neighbor or a security guard) first verifies that it is valid. Some alarm monitoring companies operating in these areas hire security guards or use third-party guard firms to verify an alarm. If Monitronics needs to hire security guards or use third-party guard firms, it could have a material adverse effect on its business through either increased servicing costs, which could negatively affect the ability of Monitronics to fund properly its ongoing operations, or increased costs to its customer, which may limit its ability to attract new customers or increase our subscriber attrition rates. In addition, the perception that police departments will not respond to third-party monitored burglar alarms, may reduce customer satisfaction with traditional monitored alarm systems, which may also result in increased attrition rates or decreased customer demand. Although Monitronics has less than 35,000 subscribers in these areas, a more widespread adoption of such a policy or similar policies in other cities or municipalities could materially and adversely affect its business. Monitronics’ business operates in a regulated industry. Monitronics’ business, operations and employees are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local consumer protection, licensing and other laws and regulations. While there are no U.S. federal laws that directly regulate the security alarm monitoring industry, the advertising and sales practices of Monitronics are subject to regulation by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in addition to state consumer protection laws that have general application that extend to Monitronics’ business. Most states in which Monitronics operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the monitored security services industry. Monitronics’ business relies heavily upon wireline and cellular telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline and cellular telephone companies are currently regulated by both federal and state governments. Changes in laws or regulations could require Monitronics to change the way it operates, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of Monitronics’ operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations were to change or Monitronics failed to comply, Monitronics’ business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Increased adoption of statutes and governmental policies purporting to void automatic renewal provisions in the AMAs, or purporting to characterize certain charges in the AMAs as unlawful, could adversely affect Monitronics’ business and operations. The AMAs typically contain provisions automatically renewing the term of the contract at the end of the initial term, unless a cancellation notice is delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract. If the customer cancels prior to the end of the contract term, other than in accordance with the contract, Monitronics may charge the customer the amounts that would have been paid over the remaining term of the contract, or charge an early cancellation fee. Several states have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, consumer protection policies or legal precedents which purport to void or substantially limit the automatic renewal provisions of contracts such as the AMAs, or otherwise restrict the charges that can be imposed upon contract cancellation. Such initiatives could negatively impact Monitronics’ business. Adverse judicial determinations regarding these matters could increase legal exposure to customers against whom such charges have been imposed, and the risk that certain customers may seek to recover such charges through litigation. In addition, the costs of defending such litigation and enforcement actions could have an adverse effect on Monitronics business and operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 