ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated by reference herein. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of the noted risk categories: (i) Risks Relating to Our Business; and (ii) Risks Relating to Our Separation from iGATE. However, additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely impact our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which may limit our ability to increase our prices for services. The IT and specialized healthcare staffing services industry is highly competitive and served by numerous global, national, regional and local firms. Primary competitors include participants from a variety of market segments, including the major consulting firms, systems consulting and implementation firms, U.S.-based staffing services companies, applications software firms, service groups of computer equipment companies, specialized interest consulting firms, programming companies and temporary staffing firms. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we have. There are relatively few barriers to entry into our markets, and we may face additional competition from new entrants into our markets. In addition, there is a risk that clients may elect to increase their internal resources to satisfy their staffing needs. There can be no assurance that we will compete successfully with existing or new competitors in the staffing services markets. Lack of success in recruitment and retention of IT and healthcare professionals may decrease our revenues and increase the costs needed to maintain our workforce. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is labor-intensive. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver our services. Qualified IT and specialized healthcare professionals are in demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these qualified professionals will be available to us in sufficient numbers, or that we will be successful in retaining current or future employees. Failure to attract or retain qualified professionals in sufficient numbers may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Historically, we have done much of our IT recruiting outside of the country where the client work is performed. Accordingly, any perception among our IT professionals, whether or not well founded, that our ability to assist them in obtaining temporary work visas and permanent residency status has been diminished, could lead to significant IT employee attrition. Any significant employee attrition will increase expenses necessary to replace and retrain our professionals and could decrease our revenues if we are not able to provide sufficient numbers of these resources to our clients. Government regulation of immigration may materially affect our workforce and limit our supply of qualified IT professionals. We recruit IT professionals on a global basis and, therefore, must comply with the immigration laws in the countries in which we operate, particularly the U.S. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 45% of our U.S. IT workforce was working under Mastech sponsored H1-B temporary work permits. Statutory law limits the number of new H1-B petitions that may be approved in a fiscal year, and if we are unable to obtain H1-B visas for our employees in sufficient quantities or at a sufficient rate for a significant period of time, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, legislation could be enacted limiting H1-B visa holders’ employment with staffing companies, which could result in reduced revenues and / or a higher cost of recruiting. In recent years, the vast majority of our H1-B hires were not subject to the annual quota limiting H1-B visas because they were already in the U.S. under H1-B visa status with another employer. As a result, the negative impact on recruiting due to the exhaustion of recent H1-B quotas was not substantial. However, unless Congress increases the annual H1-B quota, the pool of H1-B workers in the U.S., who were charged against previous years’ quotas, will decline. Such a development would make H1-B worker recruiting more difficult. Absent positive legislation, in the long-term, the pool of available H1-B workers in the U.S. that are not subject to the annual quota may eventually be substantially limited. A limitation of H1-B workers could decrease our revenues if we are not able to recruit enough domestic workers to provide sufficient numbers of IT professionals to our clients. 11 Table of Contents Negative economic conditions in the U.S. may adversely affect demand for our services. All of our revenues are generated from clients located in the U.S. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and healthcare professionals and on the economic health of our clients. Weak economic conditions may force companies to reduce their staffing budgets and adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenues. We may have difficulty maintaining client relationships if the trend towards utilizing Managed Service Providers continues. Within our IT retail and healthcare sales channels, many larger users of staffing services are employing Managed Service Providers (“MSP”) to manage their contractor expenses in an effort to drive down overall costs. The impact of this shift towards the MSP model has been to lower our gross margins. Should this trend towards utilizing the MSP model continue, it is likely that our gross margins will be pressured in the future. In addition, if larger users of staffing services continue to employ more MSPs, the relationship between us and those larger users may be primarily conducted through MSPs, in which case we may have difficulty maintaining those client relationships because the MSP model uses an MSP as an intermediary between the staffing service provider and the user, and reduces our direct contact with the user. We are dependent upon our Indian operations in our IT staffing business and there can be no assurance that our Indian operations will support our growth strategy and historical cost structure. Our Indian recruitment centers depend greatly upon business, immigration and technology transfer laws in India, and upon the continued development of technology infrastructure. There can be no assurance that our Indian operations will support our growth strategy. The risks inherent in our Indian business activities include: • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • foreign currency fluctuations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in managing international operations; and • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. Our failure to manage growth, attract and retain personnel or a significant interruption of our ability to transmit data and voice efficiently, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to successfully maintain and develop our global recruitment centers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The rupee may increase in value relative to the dollar, increasing our costs. Although we do not receive revenue from abroad, we maintain a significant portion of our IT recruiting workforce in India, and those employees are paid in rupees. Therefore, any increase in the value of the rupee versus the dollar would increase our expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, such as between India and Pakistan and even within India. There have been military confrontations along the India-Pakistan border from time to time. The potential for hostilities between the two countries is high due to past terrorist incidents in India, troop mobilizations along the border, and the geopolitical situation in the region. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting 12 Table of Contents communications and making travel more difficult. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Wage costs in India may increase, which may reduce our IT profit margins and reduce a competitive advantage of ours. Our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the U.S. for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages with respect to the costs of our Indian recruiting offices. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent or to comply with regulations. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins. Our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant variations. Our revenues and operating results have historically been subject to significant variations from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including the timing and number of client projects commenced and completed during the quarter, the number of working days in a quarter, employee hiring and attrition, and utilization rates during the quarter. We recognize revenues on time-and-materials projects as the services are performed. Because a percentage of Mastech’s operating costs are relatively fixed, variations in revenues may cause significant variations in operating results. Our strategy of expansion through the acquisition of additional companies may not be successful and may result in slower growth of our business and reduce operating margins. We plan to gradually expand our operations through the acquisition of, or investment in, additional businesses and companies. We may be unable to identify businesses that complement our strategy for growth. If we do succeed in identifying a company with such a business, we may not be able to acquire the company, its relevant business or an interest in the company for many reasons, including: • a failure to agree on the terms of the acquisition or investment; • incompatibility between us and the management of the company which we wish to acquire or invest; • competition from other potential acquirers; • a lack of capital to make the acquisition or investment; or • the unwillingness of the company to partner with us. If we are unable to acquire and invest in attractive businesses, our strategy for growth may be impaired. Even if we are able to complete one or more acquisitions, there can be no assurance that those completed acquisitions will result in successful growth, and the costs of completing an acquisition may reduce our margins. Our revenues are highly concentrated and the loss of a significant client would adversely affect our business and revenues. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the U.S., as well as clients concentrated in certain industries. Economic slowdowns, changes in U.S. law and other restrictions or factors that affect the economic health of these industries may affect our business. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 57% of our revenues were derived from our top ten clients. Consequently, if our clients reduce or postpone their spending significantly, this may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Further, any significant decrease in the rate of economic growth in the U.S. may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. 13 Table of Contents We have in the past derived, and may in the future derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of clients. Our two largest clients, IBM and TEK Systems, accounted for approximately 19% and 10% of our 2010 revenues, respectively. Both of these contracts are terminable without penalty, as are most of our assignments. The loss of any significant client or major project, or an unanticipated termination of a major project, could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues. We must keep pace with the rapid technological changes that characterize the IT and healthcare industries and our failure could result in lower demand for services. The IT and healthcare staffing services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product introductions. Our success will depend in part on our ability to keep pace with industry developments. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these developments on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by others will not render our services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A significant number of organizations are attempting to migrate their IT business applications to advanced technologies. As a result, our ability to remain competitive will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to develop, train and hire employees with skills in advanced technologies. Our failure to hire, train and retain employees with such skills could have a material adverse impact on our future revenues. Our “preferred vendor” contracts generally result in lower margins. In addition, we may not be able to maintain “preferred vendor” status with existing clients or obtain that status with new clients, which may lead to a decrease in the volume of business we obtain from these clients. We are party to several “preferred vendor” contracts, and we are seeking additional similar contracts in order to obtain new or additional business from large and medium-sized clients. Clients enter into these contracts to reduce the number of vendors and obtain better pricing in return for a potential increase in the volume of business to the preferred vendor. While these contracts are expected to generate higher volumes, they generally carry lower margins. Although we attempt to lower costs to maintain margins, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain margins on such contracts. In addition, the failure to be designated as a preferred vendor, or the loss of such status, may preclude us from providing services to existing or potential clients, except as a subcontractor, which could have a material adverse effect on the volume of business obtained from such clients. Our success depends upon the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property rights and processes, and any substantial costs incurred protecting such rights and processes may decrease our margins. Our success depends in part upon certain methodologies and tools we use in designing, developing and implementing applications systems and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit distribution of proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps we take in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In the event of an unfavorable resolution of a dispute over our intellectual property rights, we may incur substantial costs or liabilities, which would decrease our margins. Substantial changes in healthcare reform or reimbursement trends could impact our pricing and reduce our revenues in our healthcare staffing business. The healthcare industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations. Because we provide services on a contract basis and are paid directly by our hospital and healthcare 14 Table of Contents facility clients, we are not directly impacted by Medicare, Medicaid and managed care reimbursement policy changes. Nevertheless, reimbursement changes in government programs, particularly Medicare and Medicaid, can and do indirectly affect the demand and the prices paid for our services. We may not be able to replace our existing credit facility which is set to expire on October 15, 2011. Our $10 million credit facility expires on October 15, 2011. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to replace this facility, or that a replacement facility would provide the same terms and conditions that we currently enjoy. Without a credit facility, our financial flexibility to make certain investments would be impaired. Our ownership is highly concentrated in two individuals and the interests of those individual shareholders may not coincide with yours. Sunil Wadhwani and Ashok Trivedi, co-founders of iGATE, own approximately 55% of Mastech’s outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi together have sufficient voting power to elect all the members of the Board of Directors and to effect transactions without the approval of our other shareholders, except for those limited transactions that require a supermajority vote under our bylaws or articles of incorporation. The interests of Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi may from time to time diverge from our interests. Mastech’s Audit Committee consists of independent directors and addresses certain potential conflicts of interest and related party transactions that may arise between us and our directors, officers or our other affiliates. However, there can be no assurance that any conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Our business is certified as a minority-owned business, and loss of that certification may reduce our ability to gain new customers or expand our business with existing customers. We are a large minority-owned staffing firm and have been certified as minority-owned by the National Minority Supplier Development Council (the “NMSDC”). NMSDC certification has enabled us to expand our business with existing clients as well as obtain new customers and penetrate new markets. While we cannot quantify the effect of the loss of this status, we believe that its loss could adversely affect our ability to expand our business or cause us to lose existing business. Because the NMSDC certification relies in large part upon Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi maintaining their positions as the collective majority holders of our common stock, any decrease in their collective ownership may jeopardize our status as a minority-owned business. There can be no assurance that Messrs. Wadhwani and Trivedi will maintain their majority position in the company. We may be subject to liability to clients arising from our engagements. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for damages arising from errors, mistakes, omissions or negligent acts in rendering our services, there can be no assurance that our attempts to limit liability will be successful. Our failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse change to the client’s operations and, therefore, could give rise to claims against us or damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. The impact of medical malpractice and other claims asserted against us could subject us to substantial liabilities. In recent years, hospitals and healthcare facilities are subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice or related legal claims. Because our temporary healthcare professionals provide medical 15 Table of Contents care at such facilities, claims may be brought against us and our healthcare professionals relating to such malpractice assertions. In some instances, we are contractually required to indemnify our clients against claims arising from the performance of our healthcare professionals. While we maintain insurance coverage for these types of claims, there can be no assurance that our coverage will be sufficient to cover all claims against us, and we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Risks posed by climate change may materially increase our compliance costs and adversely impact our profitability. Climate change vulnerability is posing new threats and opportunities in the economy. Climate change and measures adopted to address it can affect us, our clients and suppliers in myriad ways, depending on the nature and location of the businesses, the near-term capital expenditure needs, the regulatory environments where they operate and their strategic plans. Generally, climate risks and opportunities for companies and their investors fall into four categories: • Physical risk from climate change • Regulatory risks and opportunities related to existing or proposed green house gas (“GHG”) emissions limits • Indirect regulatory risks and opportunities related to products or services from high emitting companies • Litigation risks for emitters of greenhouse gases Unmitigated climate change is likely to have severe physical impacts on companies with exposed assets or business operations, including Mastech. Major environmental risks and liabilities can significantly impact future earnings. To the extent we are unable to comply with applicable regulations related to climate change, and such failure to comply results in material increases in compliance costs or litigation expenses, those costs or expenses will have an adverse effect on our profitability. If our clients are adversely affected by climate change or related compliance costs, this may reduce their spending and demand for our services, leading to a decrease in revenue. In addition to emissions and climate change risks posed directly to Mastech, we also have clients in varied industries such as healthcare, consumer products, manufacturing, technology, and retail, among others. Some of the clients may be significantly affected by the climate change resulting in greater physical risk and impacting their operations. This may lead to a reduction of demand and loss of business from such clients, which would impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our insurance costs increase significantly, these incremental costs could negatively affect our financial results. We purchase various insurance policies to limit or transfer certain risks inherent in our operations. These costs largely relate to obtaining and maintaining professional and general liability insurances. If the costs of carrying these insurance policies increase significantly, due to poor claims history or changes in market conditions, this could have an adverse impact on our profitability and financial condition. Any disruption in the supply of power, IT infrastructure and telecommunications lines to our facilities could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs. Any disruption in basic infrastructure, including the supply of power, could negatively impact our ability to provide timely or adequate services to our clients. We rely on a number of telecommunications service and other infrastructure providers to maintain communications between our various facilities and clients. Telecommunications networks are subject to failures and periods of service disruption which can adversely affect our ability to maintain active voice and data communications among our facilities and with our clients. This could disrupt our business process or subject us to additional costs, materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Separation from iGATE If the Distribution receives unfavorable tax treatment, then we, our shareholders, or iGATE may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes. If the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we, our shareholders, or iGATE may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes. Prior to the Distribution, iGATE received an opinion of Reed Smith LLP, tax counsel to iGATE, substantially to the effect that the Distribution should qualify as a tax-free Distribution within the meaning of Section 355(a) of the Code (which condition iGATE may waive in its sole discretion). The opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by iGATE and us which, if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. In addition, the Reed Smith opinion will not be binding on the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or the courts, and the IRS may assert a position contrary to the opinion, and a court may agree with the IRS’s position. If the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, each iGATE shareholder who received Mastech common stock in the Distribution generally would be treated as having received a taxable Distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of Mastech’s common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the shareholder) on the Distribution date. That Distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder’s ratable share of iGATE’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (as increased to reflect any current income, including any gain recognized by iGATE on the taxable Distribution). The balance, if any, of the Distribution would be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the iGATE shareholder’s tax basis in its iGATE stock with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. In addition, iGATE would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock distributed to iGATE shareholders over iGATE’s adjusted tax basis in such common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction and such failure was not the result of actions taken after the Distribution by iGATE or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders, we would be responsible for all taxes imposed on iGATE as a result thereof. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 