Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, as well as in our other filings with the SEC, in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock may decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Certain statements below are forward-looking statements. For additional information, see the information included under the heading “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business and our Industry We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability. Since our inception in January 2006 we have incurred a significant net loss. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $169.2 million. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of equity securities, a debt financing with Capital Royalty Partners, and limited sales of our products. We have devoted substantially all of our resources to the research and development of our products, the commercial launch of our products, the development of a sales and marketing team and the assembly of a management team to manage our business. We began commercial sales of t:slim in the third quarter of 2012. Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, we have been able to manufacture and sell t:slim at a cost and in volumes sufficient to allow us to achieve a positive gross margin. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our gross profit was $6.2 million. However, although we have achieved a positive gross margin, we still operate at a substantial net loss and expect that we will continue to do so for at least the next several years. To implement our business strategy we need to, among other things, grow our sales and marketing infrastructure to increase sales of our products, fund ongoing research and development activities, expand our manufacturing capabilities, and obtain regulatory clearance or approval to commercialize our products currently under development. We expect our expenses to increase significantly as we pursue these objectives. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, especially given that we only recently began to commercialize t:slim, which makes forecasting our sales more difficult. Any additional operating losses will have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity, and we cannot assure you that we will ever be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We currently rely on sales of t:slim to generate a significant portion of our revenue, and any factors that negatively impact sales of this product may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our primary revenue-generating commercial product is t:slim, which we introduced to the market in the third quarter of 2012. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of t:slim and pump-related supplies. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenue is highly dependent on our ability to market and sell t:slim. Sales of t:slim may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: • problems arising from the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, or destruction, loss, or temporary shutdown of our manufacturing facility; • changes in reimbursement rates or policies relating to t:slim or similar products or technologies by third-party payors; 30 Table of Contents • our inability to enter into contracts with third-party payors on a timely basis and on acceptable terms; • claims that t:slim, or any component thereof, infringes on patent rights or other intellectual property rights of third-parties; • the harm to our reputation or any other associated liability or perceived risks that may arise from our January 2014 recall of cartridges used with the t:slim; and • adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to t:slim or similar products or technologies; Because we currently rely on a single product to generate a significant portion of our revenue, any factors that negatively impact sales of this product, or result in sales of this product increasing at a lower rate than expected, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and negatively impact our ability to successfully launch future products currently under development. The failure of t:slim to achieve and maintain market acceptance could result in us achieving sales below our expectations, which would cause our business, financial condition and operating results to be materially and adversely affected. Our current business strategy is highly dependent on t:slim achieving and maintaining market acceptance. In order for us to sell t:slim to people with insulin-dependent diabetes, we must convince them, their caregivers and healthcare providers that it is an attractive alternative to competitive products for the treatment of diabetes, including traditional insulin pump products and MDI therapies, as well as alternative insulin treatment methodologies. Market acceptance and adoption of t:slim depends on educating people with diabetes, as well as their caregivers and healthcare providers, as to the distinct features, ease-of-use, positive lifestyle impact, and other perceived benefits of t:slim as compared to competitive products. If we are not successful in convincing existing and potential customers of the benefits of t:slim, or if we are not able to achieve the support of caregivers and healthcare providers for t:slim, our sales may decline or we may fail to increase our sales in line with our forecasts. Achieving and maintaining market acceptance of t:slim could be negatively impacted by many factors, including: • the failure of t:slim to achieve wide acceptance among people with insulin-dependent diabetes, their caregivers, insulin-prescribing healthcare providers, third-party payors and key opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community; • lack of evidence supporting the safety, ease-of-use or other perceived benefits of t:slim over competitive products or other currently available insulin treatment methodologies; • perceived risks associated with the use of t:slim or similar products or technologies generally; • the introduction of competitive products and the rate of acceptance of those products as compared to t:slim; and • results of clinical studies relating to t:slim or similar competitive products. In addition, t:slim may be perceived by people with insulin-dependent diabetes, their caregivers or healthcare providers to be more complicated, less reliable or less effective than traditional insulin therapies, including MDI, and people may be unwilling to change their current treatment regimens. These negative perceptions may be heightened following our January 2014 recall of cartridges used with the t:slim. Moreover, we believe that healthcare providers tend to be slow to change their medical treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of third party reimbursement. Accordingly, healthcare providers may not recommend t:slim until there is sufficient evidence to convince them to alter the treatment methods they typically recommend, such as receiving recommendations from prominent healthcare providers or other key opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community that our products are effective in providing insulin therapy. 31 Table of Contents If t:slim does not achieve and maintain widespread market acceptance, we may fail to achieve sales at or above our projected amounts. If our sales do not meet projected amounts, we may fail to meet our strategic objectives, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for t:slim and our potential future products by third-party payors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We have derived nearly all of our revenue from the sale of t:slim in the United States and expect to continue to do so until we are able to commercialize our other products that are currently under development. A substantial portion of the purchase price of an insulin pump is typically paid for by third-party payors, including private insurance companies, preferred provider organizations and other managed care providers. Future sales of our current and future products will be limited unless our customers can rely on third-party payors to pay for all or part of the associated purchase cost. Access to adequate coverage and reimbursement for our current and future products by third-party payors is essential to the acceptance of our products by customers. Many third-party payors use coverage decisions and payment amounts determined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, which administers the U.S. Medicare program, as guidelines in setting their coverage and reimbursement policies. Medicare has recently begun to review its reimbursement practices for diabetes-related products. Medicare implemented a competitive bidding process for blood glucose strip reimbursement, which resulted in a significant reduction in the reimbursement rate for those products. More recently, Medicare has also initiated a competitive bidding process for insulin pumps in limited geographies. As a result, there is uncertainty as to the future Medicare reimbursement rate for our products. In addition, those third-party payors that do not follow the CMS guidelines may adopt different coverage and reimbursement policies for our current and future products. It is possible that some third-party payors will not offer any coverage for our current or future products. We currently have contracts establishing reimbursement for t:slim with 56 national and regional third-party payors in the United States. While we anticipate entering into additional contracts with third-party payors, we cannot guarantee that we will succeed in doing so or that the reimbursement contracts that we are able to negotiate will enable us to sell our products on a profitable basis. In addition, contracts with third-party payors generally can be modified or terminated by the third-party payor without cause and with little or no notice to us. Moreover, compliance with the administrative procedures or requirements of third-party payors may result in delays in processing approvals by those third-party payors for customers to obtain coverage for t:slim. Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for t:slim and our future products by third-party payors, or delays in processing approvals by those payors, could result in the loss of sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, the healthcare industry in the United States is increasingly focused on cost containment as government and private insurers seek to control healthcare costs by imposing lower payment rates and negotiating reduced contract rates with third-party payors. If third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of payment, or if our production costs increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels, we may be unable to sell t:slim on a profitable basis. We operate in a very competitive industry and if we fail to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, many of whom have greater resources than we have, our sales and operating results may be negatively affected. The medical device industry is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and highly sensitive to the introduction of new products or technologies, or other activities of industry participants. t:slim competes directly with a number of traditional insulin pumps as well as other methods for the treatment of diabetes. Many of our existing and potential competitors are major medical device companies that are either publicly traded companies or divisions or subsidiaries of publicly traded companies. For instance, Medtronic MiniMed, a division of Medtronic, Inc., has been the market leader for many years and has the majority share of the traditional insulin 32 Table of Contents pump market in the United States. Other significant insulin pump suppliers in the United States include Animas Corporation, a division of Johnson & Johnson, Roche Diagnostics, a division of F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd., and Insulet Corporation. These competitors also enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including: • greater financial and human resources for sales and marketing, and product development; • established relationships with healthcare providers and third-party payors; • established reputation and name recognition among healthcare providers and other key opinion leaders in the diabetes industry; • in some cases, an established base of long-time customers; • products supported by long-term clinical data; • larger and more established distribution networks; • greater ability to cross-sell products or provide incentives to healthcare providers to use their products; and • more experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, and obtaining regulatory approval or clearance. In some instances, our competitors also offer products that include features that we do not currently offer. For instance, Medtronic currently offers a traditional insulin pump that is integrated with a CGM system with a recently approved threshold suspend feature, and Insulet offers an insulin pump with a tubeless delivery system that does not utilize an infusion set. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or potential future competitors. As a result, we may fail to meet our strategic objectives and forecasted budget, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Competitive products or other technological breakthroughs for the monitoring, treatment or prevention of diabetes or technological developments may render our products obsolete or less desirable. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend, among other things, on our ability to develop and commercialize products for the treatment of diabetes that offer distinct features, are easy-to-use, receive adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and are more appealing than available alternatives. Our primary competitors, as well as a number of other companies, medical researchers and existing pharmaceutical companies are pursuing new delivery devices, delivery technologies, sensing technologies, procedures, drugs and other therapies for the monitoring, treatment and prevention of diabetes. Any technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention could reduce the potential market for t:slim or render t:slim obsolete altogether, which would significantly reduce our sales. Because of the size of the insulin-dependent diabetes market, we anticipate that companies will continue to dedicate significant resources to developing competitive products. The frequent introduction by competitors of products that are or claim to be superior to our products may create market confusion that may make it difficult to differentiate the benefits of our products over competitive products. In addition, the entry of multiple new products may lead some of our competitors to employ pricing strategies that could adversely affect the pricing of our products. If a competitor develops a product that competes with or is perceived to be superior to t:slim, or if a competitor employs strategies that place downward pressure on pricing within our industry, our sales may decline significantly or may not increase in line with our forecasts, either of which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, we have designed our products to resemble modern consumer electronic devices to address certain embarrassment and functionality concerns consumers have raised with respect to traditional pumps. The 33 Table of Contents consumer electronics industry is itself highly competitive, and characterized by continual new product introductions, rapid developments in technology, and subjective and changing consumer preferences. If, in the future, consumers cease to view our products as contemporary or convenient as compared to then-existing consumer electronics technology, our products may become less desirable. If we are unable to expand our sales, marketing and clinical infrastructure, we may fail to increase our sales to meet our forecasts. Because we began commercialization of t:slim in the third quarter of 2012, we have only limited experience marketing and selling our products as well as training new customers on the use of t:slim. We derive nearly all of our revenue from the sale of t:slim and pump-related supplies and we expect that this will continue for the next several years unless and until we receive regulatory clearance or approval for other products currently in development. As a result, our financial condition and operating results are and will continue to be highly dependent on the ability of our sales representatives to adequately promote, market and sell t:slim and the ability of our diabetes educators to train new customers on the use of t:slim. If our sales and marketing representatives or diabetes educators fail to achieve their objectives, our sales could decrease or may not increase at levels that are in line with our forecasts. A key element of our business strategy is the continued expansion of our sales, marketing and clinical infrastructure to drive adoption of our products, which includes our team of diabetes educators that trains new customers on the use of t:slim. We have rapidly increased the number of sales, marketing and clinical personnel employed by us since the initial commercial launch of t:slim. However, we have faced considerable challenges in quickly growing our sales, marketing and clinical force over the past 12-18 months, including with respect to recruiting, training and assimilation of new territories and accounts. We expect to continue to face significant challenges as we manage and grow our sales, marketing and clinical infrastructure and work to retain the individuals who make up those networks. If any of our sales, marketing or clinical representatives were to leave us, our sales could be adversely affected. If a sales, marketing or clinical representative were to depart and be retained by one of our competitors, we may fail to prevent them from helping competitors solicit business from our existing customers, which could further adversely affect our sales. In addition, if we are not able to recruit and retain a network of diabetes educators, we may not be able to successfully train new customers on the use of t:slim, which could delay new sales and harm our reputation. As we increase our sales, marketing and clinical expenditures with respect to existing or planned products, we will need to further expand the reach of our sales, marketing and clinical networks. Our future success will depend largely on our ability to continue to hire, train, retain and motivate skilled sales, marketing and clinical representatives with significant industry-specific knowledge in various areas, such as diabetes treatment techniques and technologies, as well as the competitive landscape for our products. Recently hired sales representatives require training and take time to achieve full productivity. If we fail to train recent hires adequately, or if we experience high turnover in our sales force in the future, we cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as may be necessary to maintain or increase our sales. In addition, the expansion of our sales, marketing and clinical personnel will continue to place significant burdens on our management team. If we are unable to expand our sales, marketing and clinical capabilities, we may not be able to effectively commercialize our existing or planned products, or enhance the strength of our brand, either of which could result in the failure of our sales to increase in line with our forecasts. Our sales and marketing efforts are dependent on independent distributors who are free to market products that compete with t:slim. If we are unable to maintain or expand our network of independent distributors, our sales may be negatively affected. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 69% of our sales were generated through 32 independent distributors. While we expect that the percentage of our sales generated from independent 34 Table of Contents distributors will decrease over time as we enter into contracts with additional third party payors, we believe that a meaningful percentage of our sales will continue to be generated by independent distributors for the foreseeable future. None of our independent distributors has been required to sell our products exclusively and each of them may freely sell the products of our competitors. Our distributor agreements generally have one year initial terms with automatic one-year renewal terms, and are terminable in connection with a party’s material breach. Some of our independent distributors account for a significant portion of our sales volume. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our two largest independent distributors comprised approximately 30% of our sales. If any of our key independent distributors were to cease to distribute our products, our sales could be adversely affected. In such a situation, we may need to seek alternative independent distributors or increase our reliance on our other independent distributors or our direct sales representatives, which may not prevent our sales from being adversely affected. Additionally, to the extent that we enter into additional arrangements with independent distributors to perform sales, marketing, or distribution services, the terms of the arrangements could cause our product margins to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenue depends in part on retaining a high percentage of our customer base. A key to maintaining and growing our revenue is the retention of a high percentage of our customers due to the potentially significant revenue generated from ongoing purchases of disposable insulin cartridges. In addition, t:slim is designed and tested to remain effective for four years and a satisfied customer may consider purchasing another product from us when the time comes to replace the pump. We have developed retention programs aimed at customers, their caregivers and healthcare providers, which include training specific to t:slim, ongoing support by sales and clinical employees and 24/7 technical support and customer service. If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of the introduction of competitive products, changes in reimbursement policies, manufacturing problems, perceived safety or reliability issues with our or competitors’ products, the failure to secure regulatory clearance or approvals, or for other reasons, our ability to attract and retain customers could be harmed. The failure to retain a high percentage of our customers would negatively impact our revenue growth and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If important assumptions about the potential market for our products are inaccurate, or if we have failed to understand what people with insulin-dependent diabetes are seeking in an insulin pump, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Our business strategy was developed based on a number of important assumptions about the diabetes industry in general, and the insulin-dependent diabetes market in particular, any one or more of which may prove to be inaccurate. For example, we believe that the benefits of insulin pump therapy as compared to other common insulin treatment alternatives will continue to drive growth in the market for insulin pump therapy. In addition, we believe the incidence of diabetes in the United States and worldwide is increasing rapidly. However, each of these trends is uncertain and limited sources exist to obtain reliable market data. The actual incidence of diabetes, and the actual demand for our products or competitive products, could differ materially from our projections if our assumptions are incorrect. In addition, our strategy of focusing exclusively on the insulin-dependent diabetes market may limit our ability to increase sales or achieve profitability. Another key element of our business strategy is utilizing market research to understand what people with diabetes are seeking to improve their diabetes therapy management. This strategy underlies our entire product design, marketing and customer support approach and is the basis on which we developed t:slim. However, our market research is based on interviews, focus groups and online surveys involving people with insulin-dependent diabetes, their caregivers and healthcare providers that represent only a small percentage of the overall insulin-dependent diabetes market. As a result, the responses we received may not be reflective of the broader market and may not provide us accurate insight into the desires of people with insulin-dependent diabetes. In addition, understanding the meaning and significance of the responses received during our market research necessarily 35 Table of Contents requires that analysis be conducted and conclusions be drawn. We may not be able perform an analysis that yields meaningful results, or the conclusions we draw from the analysis could be misleading. Moreover, even if our market research has allowed us to better understand the features consumers are seeking in an insulin pump to improve management of their diabetes therapy, there can be no assurance that consumers will actually purchase our products or that our competitors will not develop products with similar features. We have a limited operating history and may face difficulties encountered by companies early in their commercialization in competitive and rapidly evolving markets. We commenced operations in 2006 and began commercializing t:slim in the third quarter of 2012. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our business and forecast our future sales and operating results. In assessing our business prospects, you should consider the various risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies early in their commercialization in competitive and rapidly evolving markets, particularly companies that develop and sell medical devices. These risks include our ability to: • implement and execute our business strategy; • expand and improve the productivity of our sales and marketing infrastructure to grow sales of our existing and proposed products; • increase awareness of our brand and build loyalty among people with insulin-dependent diabetes, their caregivers and healthcare providers; • manage expanding operations; • expand our manufacturing capabilities, including increasing production of current products efficiently while maintaining quality standards and adapting our manufacturing facilities to the production of new products; • respond effectively to competitive pressures and developments; • enhance our existing products and develop proposed products; • obtain and maintain regulatory clearance or approval to commercialize proposed products and enhance our existing products; • perform clinical trials with respect to our existing products and proposed products; and • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel in various areas of our business. Due to our limited operating history, we may not have the institutional knowledge or experience to be able to effectively address these and other risks that may face our business. In addition, we may not be able to develop insights into trends that could emerge and negatively affect our business and may fail to respond effectively to those trends. As a result of these or other risks, we may not be able to execute key components of our business strategy, and our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer. Manufacturing risks may adversely affect our ability to manufacture products and could reduce our gross margins and negatively affect our operating results. Our business strategy depends on our ability to manufacture our current and proposed products in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis so as to meet consumer demand, while adhering to product quality standards, complying with regulatory requirements and managing manufacturing costs. We are subject to numerous risks relating to our manufacturing capabilities, including: • quality or reliability defects in product components that we source from third party suppliers; • our inability to secure product components in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms; 36 Table of Contents • our failure to increase production of products to meet demand; • the challenge of implementing and maintaining acceptable quality systems while experiencing rapid growth; • our inability to modify production lines to enable us to efficiently produce future products or implement changes in current products in response to regulatory requirements; • difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner; and • potential damage to or destruction of our manufacturing equipment or manufacturing facility. These risks are likely to be exacerbated by our limited experience with our current products and manufacturing processes. As demand for our products increases, we will have to invest additional resources to purchase components, hire and train employees, and enhance our manufacturing processes and quality systems. If we fail to increase our production capacity efficiently while also maintaining quality requirements, our sales may not increase in line with our forecasts and our operating margins could fluctuate or decline. In addition, although we expect some of our products in development to share product features and components with t:slim, manufacturing of these products may require the modification of our production lines, the hiring of specialized employees, the identification of new suppliers for specific components, or the development of new manufacturing technologies. It may not be possible for us to manufacture these products at a cost or in quantities sufficient to make these products commercially viable. We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain components, and the loss of any of these suppliers, or their inability to provide us with an adequate supply of materials, could harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers to supply components of t:slim and of our potential future products. For example, we rely on plastic injection molding companies to provide plastic molded components, electronic manufacturing suppliers to provide electronic assemblies, and machining companies to provide machined mechanical components. For our business strategy to be successful, our suppliers must be able to provide us with components in sufficient quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and quality control standards, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable costs and on a timely basis. Increases in our product sales, whether forecasted or unanticipated, could strain the ability of our suppliers to deliver an increasingly large supply of components in a manner that meets these various requirements. We do not have long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers and, in many cases, we make our purchases on a purchase order basis. Under most of our supply agreements, we have no obligation to buy any given quantity of products, and our suppliers have no obligation to manufacture for us or sell to us any given quantity of products. As a result, our ability to purchase adequate quantities of our products may be limited. Additionally, our suppliers may encounter problems that limit their ability to manufacture products for us, including financial difficulties or damage to their manufacturing equipment or facilities. If we fail to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality components to meet demand on a timely basis, we could lose customer orders, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer. We generally use a small number of suppliers for our products. Depending on a limited number of suppliers exposes us to risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. Moreover, due to the recent commercialization of our products and the limited amount of our sales to date, we do not have long-standing relationships with our manufacturers and may not be able to convince suppliers to continue to make components available to us unless there is demand for such components from their other customers. As a result, there is a risk that certain components could be discontinued and no longer available to us. We have in the past been, and we may in the future be, required to make significant “last time” purchases of component inventory that is being discontinued by the manufacturer to ensure supply continuity. If any one or more of our suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply. Because of factors such as the proprietary nature of 37 Table of Contents our products, our quality control standards and regulatory requirements, we cannot quickly engage additional or replacement suppliers for some of our critical components. Failure of any of our suppliers to deliver products at the level our business requires would limit our ability to meet our sales commitments, which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to FDA, or other regulatory agencies, and the failure of our suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including warning letters, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. It could also require us to cease using the components, seek alternative components or technologies and modify our products to incorporate alternative components or technologies, which could result in a requirement to seek additional regulatory approvals. Any disruption of this nature or increased expenses could harm our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our operating results. We operate primarily at a facility in a single location, and any disruption at this facility could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our principal offices are presently located in three contiguous buildings in San Diego, California. Substantially all of our operations are conducted at this location, including our manufacturing processes, research and development activities, customer and technical support, and management and administrative functions. In addition, substantially all of our inventory of component supplies and finished goods is held at this location. We take precautions to safeguard our facility, including acquiring insurance, employing back-up generators, adopting health and safety protocols and utilizing off-site storage of computer data. However, vandalism, terrorism or a natural or other disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or our inventory of component supplies or finished goods, cause substantial delays in our operations, result in the loss of key information, and cause us to incur additional expenses. Our insurance may not cover our losses in any particular case. In addition, regardless of the level of insurance coverage, damage to our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we do not enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts, we may fail to effectively compete or become profitable. In order to increase our sales and our market share in the insulin-dependent diabetes market, we must enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to the evolving demands of people with insulin-dependent diabetes and healthcare providers, as well as competitive pressures and technologies. We may not be successful in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, or marketing our proposed products when anticipated, or at all. In addition, notwithstanding our market research efforts, our future products may not be accepted by consumers, their caregivers, healthcare providers or third-party payors who reimburse consumers for our products. The success of any proposed product offerings will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to: • identify the product features that people with insulin-dependent diabetes, their caregivers and healthcare providers are seeking in an insulin pump and successfully incorporate those features into our products; • develop and introduce proposed products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner; • offer products at a price that is competitive with other products then available; • adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties; • demonstrate the safety and efficacy of proposed products; and • obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for proposed products. If we fail to generate demand by developing products that incorporate features requested by consumers, their caregivers or healthcare providers, or if we do not obtain regulatory clearance or approval for proposed 38 Table of Contents products in time to meet market demand, we may fail to generate sales sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability. We have in the past experienced, and we may in the future experience, delays in various phases of product development and commercial launch, including during research and development, manufacturing, limited release testing, marketing and customer education efforts. Any delays in our anticipated regulatory submissions or approvals, or subsequent product launches, may significantly impede our ability to successfully compete in our markets. In particular, such delays could cause customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, or to purchase our competitors’ products. Even if we are able to successfully develop proposed products when anticipated, these products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing consumer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. The safety and efficacy of our products is not supported by long-term clinical data, which could limit sales, and our products could cause unforeseen negative effects. The product we currently market in the United States received pre-market clearance under Section 510(k) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. This process is shorter and typically requires the submission of less supporting documentation than other FDA approval processes and does not always require long-term clinical studies. As a result, we currently lack the breadth of published long-term clinical data supporting the safety and efficacy of our products and the benefits they offer that might have been generated in connection with other approval processes. For these reasons, people with insulin-dependent diabetes and healthcare providers may be slower to adopt or recommend our products, we may not have comparative data that our competitors have or are generating, third-party payors may not be willing to provide coverage or reimbursement for our products and we may be subject to greater regulatory and product liability risks. Further, future studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with our products is not superior to treatment with competitive products. Such results could slow the adoption of our products and significantly reduce our sales, which could prevent us from achieving our forecasted sales targets or achieving or sustaining profitability. Moreover, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to mandatory product recalls, suspension or withdrawal of FDA clearance or approval, significant legal liability or harm to our business reputation. Any alleged illness or injury associated with any of our products or product recall may negatively impact our financial results and business prospects depending on the scope, degree of publicity, reaction of our customers, healthcare professionals, and collaborators, competitive reaction, and consumer attitudes overall. Even if such an allegation or product liability claim lacks merit, cannot be substantiated, is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness, injury or death could adversely affect our reputation with customers, healthcare professionals, and existing and potential collaborators, and could adversely affect our operating results and cause a decline in our stock price. We may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships with third-parties that may not result in the development of commercially viable products or the generation of significant future revenues. In the ordinary course of our business, we may enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to develop proposed products and to pursue new markets. Proposing, negotiating and implementing collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. We may not identify, secure, or complete any such transactions or arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, on acceptable terms or at all. We have limited institutional knowledge and experience with respect to these business development activities, and we may also not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction or arrangement. In particular, these collaborations may not result in the development of products that achieve commercial success or result in significant revenues and could be terminated prior to developing any products. 39 Table of Contents Additionally, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding the transaction or arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our collaborators may have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals. It is possible that conflicts may arise with our collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with our current or future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest, and they may breach their obligations to us. In addition, we have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators devote to our collaborators’ or our future products. Disputes between us and our collaborators may result in litigation or arbitration which would increase our expenses and divert the attention of our management. Further, these transactions and arrangements are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the applicable agreements and, in such event, we may not continue to have rights to the products relating to such transaction or arrangement or may need to purchase such rights at a premium. For example, we have entered into a development and commercialization agreement with DexCom, which provides us a non-exclusive license to integrate the DexCom G4 PLATINUM Continuous Glucose Monitor with t:sensor during the term of the agreement. This agreement runs until February 1, 2015, with automatic one-year renewals. The license granted covers the United States and other territories may be added from time to time. Subject to payments of certain of the non-terminating party’s development expenses, the agreement may be terminated by either party without cause. Termination of this agreement could require us to redesign t:sensor and attempt to integrate an alternative CGM system into t:sensor, which would require significant development and regulatory activities that might delay the launch and commercialization of this product or, following its launch, might not be completed in time to prevent an interruption in the availability of t:sensor to our customers. For additional information, see “Business—Research and Development.” We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of complementary products or technologies, and the failure to manage acquisitions, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. From time to time, we may consider opportunities to acquire other products or technologies that may enhance our product platform or technology, expand the breadth of our markets or customer base, or advance our business strategies. Potential acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the acquired products or technologies; • issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing business; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; and • increased legal and accounting costs relating to the acquisitions or compliance with regulatory matters. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition. We do not know if we will be able to identify acquisitions we deem suitable, whether we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions on favorable terms or at all, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired products or technologies. Our potential inability to integrate any acquired products or technologies effectively may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 40 Table of Contents If there are significant disruptions in our information technology systems, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage sales and marketing data, accounting and financial functions, inventory management, product development tasks, research and development data, customer service and technical support functions. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, attacks by computer viruses or hackers, power losses, and computer system or data network failures. In addition, t:connect, our cloud-based data management application, is hosted by a third-party service provider whose security and information technology systems are subject to similar risks, and our t:slim Pumps and products currently in development contain software which could be subject to computer virus or hacker attacks or other failures. The failure of our or our service providers’ information technology systems or our pumps’ software to perform as we anticipate or our failure to effectively implement new information technology systems could disrupt our entire operation or adversely affect our software products and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, and product shortages, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. Our rapid growth has placed, and we expect that it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management team and on our financial resources. For example, between December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013 our employee base has nearly doubled and we expect to continue to experience rapid growth of our employee base during 2014. Failure to manage our growth effectively could cause us to misallocate management or financial resources, and result in losses or weaknesses in our infrastructure, which could materially adversely affect our business. Additionally, our anticipated growth will increase the demands placed on our suppliers, resulting in an increased need for us to manage our suppliers and monitor for quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. We depend on the knowledge and skills of our senior management and other key employees, and if we are unable to retain and motivate them or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business may suffer. We have benefited substantially from the leadership and performance of our senior management, as well as certain key employees. For example, our chief executive officer, as well as other key members of management, have experience successfully scaling an early stage medical device company to achieve profitability. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and key employees, and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management and key employees in our industry is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our personnel or attract new, qualified personnel. The loss of the services of certain members of our senior management or key employees could prevent or delay the implementation and completion of our strategic objectives, or divert management’s attention to seeking qualified replacements. Each member of senior management as well as our key employees may terminate employment without notice and without cause or good reason. The members of our senior management are not subject to non-competition agreements. Accordingly, the adverse effect resulting from the loss of certain members of senior management could be compounded by our inability to prevent them from competing with us. In addition, the sale of our products is logistically complex, requiring us to maintain an extensive sales, marketing and clinical infrastructure consisting of sales representatives, clinical diabetes educators and customer support personnel. We face considerable challenges in recruiting, training, managing, motivating and retaining the members of these teams, including managing geographically dispersed efforts. These challenges are exacerbated by the fact that our strategic plan requires us to rapidly grow our sales, marketing and clinical infrastructure in order to generate demand for our products. If we fail to maintain and grow a dedicated team of sales and marketing and clinical personnel, we could fail to take advantage of an opportunity to enhance brand recognition and grow sales, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, promulgated patient privacy rules under the HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we or any of our service providers are found to be in violation of the promulgated patient privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to our Financial Results and Need for Financing We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitable operations. We intend to increase our operating expenses substantially in connection with the continued growth of our sales and marketing infrastructure, our ongoing research and development activities, the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities, and the commensurate development of our management team, administrative functions and facilities. We will need to generate significant sales to achieve profitability, and we might not be able to do so. Even if we do generate significant sales, we might not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If our sales grow more slowly than we have forecasted, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. At December 31, 2013, we had $124.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. We believe that our available cash, cash available under our term loan agreement and proceeds from the exercise of warrants and options will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for at least the next 18 months. However, the continued growth of our business, including the expansion of our sales and marketing infrastructure, research and development activities, and manufacturing capabilities, will significantly increase our expenses. In addition, the amount of our future product sales is difficult to predict, especially in light of the recent commercialization of t:slim, and actual sales may not be in line with our forecasts. As a result, we may be required to seek additional funds in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the revenue generated by sales of t:slim and any other future products that we may develop and commercialize; • the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure; • the expenses we incur in maintaining our manufacturing facility and adding further manufacturing equipment and capacity; • the cost associated with developing and commercializing our proposed products or technologies; • the cost of obtaining and maintaining regulatory clearance or approval for our current or future products; • the cost of ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements; • expenses we incur in connection with potential litigation or governmental investigations; 42 Table of Contents • anticipated or unanticipated capital expenditures; and • unanticipated general and administrative expenses. As a result of these and other factors, we do not know whether and the extent to which we may be required to raise additional capital. We may in the future seek additional capital from public or private offerings of our capital stock, borrowings under credit lines or other sources. If we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaborations, licensing, joint ventures, strategic alliances, partnership arrangements or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not be able to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure, enhance our current products or develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, changes in supplier relationships, or unanticipated changes in customer demand. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We began commercial sales of t:slim in the third quarter of 2012. Although we have a very limited operating history, there has been and there may continue to be meaningful variability in our operating results among quarters, as well as within each quarter. Our operating results, and the variability of these operating results, will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our ability to increase sales of t:slim and to commercialize and sell our future products, and the number of our products sold in each quarter; • acceptance of our products by people with insulin-dependent diabetes, their caregivers, healthcare providers and third-party payors; • the pricing of our products and competitive products, and the effect of third-party coverage and reimbursement policies; • our ability to establish and grow an effective sales and marketing infrastructure; • the amount of, and the timing of the payment for, insurance deductibles required to be paid by our customers and potential customers under their existing insurance plans; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • our ability to manufacture products that meet quality and reliability requirements; • seasonality and other factors affecting the timing of purchases of our products; • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors; • results of clinical research and trials on our existing and future products; • the ability of our suppliers to timely provide us with an adequate supply of components that meet our requirements; • regulatory clearance or approvals affecting our products or those of our competitors; and • the timing of revenue recognition associated with our product sales pursuant to applicable accounting standards. 43 Table of Contents As a result of our limited operating history, and due to the complexities of the industry in which we operate, it will be difficult for us to forecast demand for our current or future products with any degree of certainty, which means it will be difficult for us to forecast our sales. In addition, we will be significantly increasing our operating expenses as we expand our business. Accordingly, we may experience substantial variability in our operating results from quarter to quarter, including unanticipated quarterly losses. If our quarterly or annual operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, which currently consists of our credit facility with Capital Royalty Partners. As of December 31, 2013, we owed an aggregate principal amount of $30 million to Capital Royalty Partners pursuant to a term loan agreement. Under the agreement, we have the ability to draw up to an additional $15 million provided we are in compliance with the terms of the loan agreement up until May 30, 2014. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on numerous factors, including the amount of our cash reserves and our actual and projected financial and operating performance. These amounts and our performance are subject to certain financial and business factors, as well as prevailing economic and competitive conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash reserves or cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our existing or future indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, or that these actions would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, in the event of our breach of the term loan agreement with Capital Royalty Partners, we may not be allowed to draw additional amounts under the agreement, and we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts earlier than anticipated. Our existing term loan agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. Our existing term loan agreement with Capital Royalty Partners contains certain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and liens, merge with other companies or consummate certain changes of control, acquire other companies, engage in new lines of business, make certain investments, pay dividends, transfer or dispose of assets, amend certain material agreements or enter into various specified transactions. We therefore may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions unless we obtain the consent of the lender or terminate the term loan agreement. The agreement also contains certain financial covenants, including minimum revenue and cash balance requirements, and financial reporting requirements. There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or sales to meet the financial covenants or pay the principal and interest under the agreement. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance the amounts outstanding under the agreement. Prolonged negative economic conditions could adversely affect us, our customers and suppliers, which could harm our financial condition. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in general economic and market conditions. Uncertainty remains in the U.S. economy as it continues to recover from a severe economic recession. The U.S. economy continues to experience market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, diminished liquidity and availability of credit, reduced property values, concerns regarding inflation, increases in the cost of commodities, continuing high unemployment rates, reduced consumer spending and consumer confidence, and 44 Table of Contents continuing economic uncertainties. The economic turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our existing and potential customers, adversely affect the financial ability of health insurers to pay claims, adversely impact our expenses and ability to obtain financing of our operations, and cause delays or other problems with key suppliers. We cannot predict the timing or impact of the recovery from this economic uncertainty. Healthcare spending in the United States has been, and is expected to continue to be, negatively affected by the recent recession and continuing economic uncertainty. For example, patients who have lost their jobs or healthcare coverage may no longer be covered by an employer-sponsored health insurance plan, and patients reducing their overall spending may eliminate healthcare-related purchases. The recent recession and continuing economic uncertainty has also impacted the financial stability of many private health insurers. As a result, we believe that some insurers are scrutinizing insurance claims more rigorously and delaying or denying reimbursement more often. Since the sale of t:slim generally depends on the availability of third-party reimbursement, any delay or decline in reimbursement will adversely affect our sales. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology is uncertain. We rely primarily on patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, to protect our proprietary technologies. As of December 31, 2013, our patent portfolio consisted of approximately 20 issued U.S. patents and 58 pending U.S. patent applications. Of these, our issued U.S. patents expire between approximately 2021 and 2031. We are also seeking patent protection for our proprietary technology in other countries throughout the world. . We also have seven pending U.S. trademark applications and seven pending foreign trademark applications, as well as 13 trademark registrations, including four U.S. trademark registrations and nine foreign trademark registrations. We have applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products and processes. Currently, three of our issued U.S. patents as well as various pending U.S. and foreign patent applications relate to the structure and operation of our pumping mechanism and are therefore particularly important to the functionality of our products. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any jurisdiction, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved in a timely manner or at all. The rights granted to us under our patents, and the rights we are seeking to have granted in our pending patent applications, may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. In addition, those rights could be opposed, contested or circumvented by our competitors, or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer the same or similar products or technologies. Even if we are successful in receiving patent protection for certain products and processes, our competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes which are comparable to ours without infringing on our intellectual property rights. Due to differences between foreign and U.S. patent laws, our patented intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Even if patents are granted outside the United States, effective enforcement in those countries may not be available. We rely on our trademarks and trade names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved in a timely manner or at all. Third-parties also may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote additional resources to marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe upon our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. 45 Table of Contents We have entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our officers, employees, temporary employees and consultants regarding our intellectual property and proprietary technology. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of those agreements, we may not be provided with meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. If a competitor infringes upon one of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those patents, trademarks and other rights may be difficult and time consuming. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the industry in which we operate is subject to rapid change and constant evolution and, consequently, patent positions in our industry can be uncertain. Even if successful, litigation to defend our patents and trademarks against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from managing our business. Moreover, we may not have sufficient resources or desire to defend our patents or trademarks against challenges or to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third-parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation, and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management’s time and efforts, or require us to pay damages. Our success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or violating the other proprietary rights of third-parties. Significant litigation regarding patent rights exists in our industry. Our competitors in both the United States and abroad, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, and the complexities of the technology involved increase the risk of patent litigation. In the future, we could receive communications from various industry participants alleging our infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • incur significant legal expenses; • pay substantial damages to the party whose intellectual property rights we are allegedly infringing; • redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; or • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third-parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any litigation or claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. Further, as the number of participants in the diabetes market increases, the possibility of intellectual property infringement claims against us increases. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, or our employees, have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including those that are our direct competitors or could potentially be our direct competitors. In some cases, those employees joined 46 Table of Contents our company recently. We may be subject to claims that we, or our employees, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of these former employers or competitors. In addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to allegations that we caused an employee to breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we successfully defend against these claims, litigation could cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation. If our defense to those claims fails, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. We cannot guarantee that this type of litigation will not continue, and any future litigation or the threat thereof may adversely affect our ability to hire additional direct sales representatives. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize proposed products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the design, manufacture, testing and sale of medical devices. We could become the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition, injury or death to customers. The risk of one or more product liability claims or lawsuit may be even greater following our January 2014 voluntary recall of cartridges used with the t:slim Pump. In addition, the misuse of our products or the failure of customers to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant harm to customers, including death, which could result in product liability claims. Product liability lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls, with or without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business, harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Although we maintain third-party product liability insurance coverage, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies. Even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance policy, these policies typically have substantial deductibles for which we are responsible. Product liability claims in excess of applicable insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase of our product liability insurance premiums. Insurance coverage varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to protect again potential product liability claims could prevent or limit our commercialization of current products or products currently under development. Risks Related to our Legal and Regulatory Environment Our products and operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause our business to suffer. The medical device industry is regulated extensively by governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state regulatory agencies. The regulations are very complex and are subject to rapid change and varying interpretations. Regulatory restrictions or changes could limit our ability to carry on or expand our operations or result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales. The FDA and other U.S. governmental agencies regulate numerous elements of our business, including: • product design and development; • pre-clinical and clinical testing and trials; 47 Table of Contents • product safety; • establishment registration and product listing; • labeling and storage; • marketing, manufacturing, sales and distribution; • pre-market clearance or approval; • servicing and post-market surveillance; • advertising and promotion; and • recalls and field safety corrective actions. Before we can market or sell a new regulated product or a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or approval of a PMA application from the FDA, unless an exemption from pre-market review applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based on extensive data. The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Products that are approved through a PMA application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified. Similarly, some modifications made to products cleared through a 510(k) may require a new 510(k). The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all for our proposed products. We received pre-market clearance for t:slim under Section 510(k) of the FDCA in November 2011. We obtained 510(k) clearance for t:connect in February 2013. From time to time, we make modifications to these products that may require a new 510(k). If the FDA requires us to go through a more rigorous examination for future products or modifications to existing products than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline or to not increase in line with our forecasts. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain PMA process. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate that our products are safe and effective for their intended users; • the data from our clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval; and • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements. In addition, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently cleared or approved products on a timely basis. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, clearance or approval for our products under development could prevent us from generating revenue from these products or achieving profitability. Additionally, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers. Regulatory enforcement or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could dissuade some customers from using our products and adversely affect our reputation and the perceived safety and efficacy of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could jeopardize our ability to sell our products and result in enforcement actions such as fines, civil penalties, injunctions, warning letters, recalls of products, delays in the 48 Table of Contents introduction of products into the market, refusal of the FDA or other regulators to grant future clearances or approvals, and the suspension or withdrawal of existing approvals by the FDA or other regulators. Any of these sanctions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, we may evaluate international expansion opportunities in the future. If we expand our operations outside of the United States, we will become subject to various additional regulatory and legal requirements under the applicable laws and regulations of the international markets we enter. These additional regulatory requirements may involve significant costs and expenditures and, if we are not able comply any such requirements, our international expansion and business could be significantly harmed. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary for changes that we have made to our products. If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications or PMAs for modifications to our previously cleared or approved products for which we previously concluded that new clearances or approvals were not necessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Furthermore, the FDA’s ongoing review of the 510(k) program may make it more difficult for us to modify our previously cleared products, either by imposing stricter requirements on when a new 510(k) for a modification to a previously cleared product must be submitted, or applying more onerous review criteria to such submissions. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations, this could impair our ability to market our products in a cost-effective and timely manner. We and our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA audits compliance with the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing and other facilities. The FDA may impose inspections or audits at any time. If we or our suppliers have significant non-compliance issues or if any corrective action plan that we or our suppliers propose in response to observed deficiencies is not sufficient, the FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any of the foregoing actions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. A recall of our products, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant negative impact on us. The FDA has the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and operating results, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner. 49 Table of Contents Further, under the FDA’s medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall, which could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner and have an adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and operating results. In January 2014, we implemented a voluntary recall of select lots of cartridges used with the t:slim that may be at risk of leaking. A cartridge leak could potentially result in the delivery of too much or too little insulin, which could lead to unexpected high or low blood glucose levels. Too much insulin can result in severe low blood sugar, or hypoglycemia, and too little insulin can lead to severe high blood sugar, or hyperglycemia, both of which can lead to serious injury or death. We notified the FDA of the recall and also notified our customers and any of our independent distributors that may have received affected cartridges. We have also filed multiple MDRs with the FDA following the recall and we expect to file additional MDRs in the future as we collect additional information. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or regulatory agency action, which could include inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our reputation and financial results. Our failure to comply with U.S. federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other U.S. federal and state anti-referral laws, could have a material, adverse impact on our business. There are numerous U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Our relationships with healthcare providers and other third-parties are subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal healthcare programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; • the federal HIPAA of 1996, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; • the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertisement and consumer protections; and • foreign and U.S. state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. Further, the recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or, collectively, the PPACA, among other things, amends the intent 50 Table of Contents requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity can now be found guilty under the PPACA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Possible sanctions for violation of these anti-kickback laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of those prohibitions. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. To enforce compliance with the federal laws, the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, has recently increased its scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. Dealing with investigations can be time- and resource-consuming and can divert management’s attention from our core business. Additionally, if a healthcare company settles an investigation with the DOJ or other law enforcement agencies, we may be forced to agree to additional onerous compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree or corporate integrity agreement. Any such investigation or settlement could increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. The scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Federal or state regulatory authorities might challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any of these challenges could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. Any state or federal regulatory review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether or not retroactive. We may be liable if we engage in the off-label promotion of our products. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of the off-label use of our products. Healthcare providers may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could result in substantial damage awards against us and harm our reputation. Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of our products. Recent political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. The sales of our products depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other healthcare-related organizations. Both the Federal and state governments in the United States continue to propose and pass new legislation and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare. This legislation and regulation may result in decreased reimbursement for medical devices, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for medical devices. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate sales. 51 Table of Contents In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for our proposed products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Federal and state governments in the United States have recently enacted legislation to overhaul the nation’s healthcare system. While the goal of healthcare reform is to expand coverage to more individuals, it also involves increased government price controls, additional regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. The PPACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, encourages improvements in the quality of healthcare items and services and significantly impacts the medical device industries. Among other things, the PPACA: • establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research; • implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models; and • creates an independent payment advisory board that will submit recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeds a specified growth rate. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend to Congress proposals in spending reductions. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year which commenced in 2013. The uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of the PPACA and other healthcare reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation may have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products. In the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for our products. At this time, we cannot predict which, if any, additional healthcare reform proposals will be adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they, or the PPACA, may have on our business and operations, and any of these impacts may be adverse on our operating results and financial condition. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by medical device tax provisions in the healthcare reform laws. The PPACA imposes, among other things, an annual excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States beginning in 2013. Under these provisions, the Congressional Research Service predicts that the total cost to the medical device industry may be up to $20 billion over the next decade. We do not believe that t:slim is currently subject to this tax based on the retail exemption under applicable Treasury Regulations. However, the availability of this exemption is subject to interpretation by the IRS, and the IRS may disagree with our analysis. In addition, future products that we manufacture, produce or import may be subject to this tax. The financial impact this tax may have on our business is unclear and there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially adversely affected by it. 52 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock Because of their significant stock ownership, certain of our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders will be able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions. Based on an aggregate of 22,925,614 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors, and their affiliates owned, in the aggregate, over 50% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. These persons, acting together, will have the ability to significantly influence or determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of the aforementioned stockholders might not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our capital stock. This concentration of ownership may reduce the value of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could reduce our stock price and prevent our stockholders from replacing or removing our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock with powers, preferences and rights that may be senior to our common stock, which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval; • provide for the adoption of a staggered board of directors whereby the board is divided into three classes each of which has a different three-year term; • provide that the number of directors shall be fixed by the board; • prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies; • provide for the removal of a director only with cause and then by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares; • prohibit stockholders from calling special stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent without holding a meeting of stockholders; • require the vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares to approve amendments to the certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 53 Table of Contents Our board of directors is authorized to issue and designate shares of our preferred stock in additional series without stockholder approval. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without the approval of our stockholders, to issue 5,000,000 shares of our preferred stock, subject to limitations prescribed by applicable law, rules and regulations and the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as shares of preferred stock in series, and to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof. The powers, preferences and rights of these additional series of preferred stock may be senior to or on parity with our common stock, and the issuance of such shares in the future may reduce the value of our common stock. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2013, we have federal net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards of approximately $119.7 million. In general, if there is an “ownership change” with respect to our company, as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code, the utilization of our NOL carryforwards may be subject to substantial limitations imposed by the Code, and similar state provisions. In general, an ownership change occurs whenever there is a shift in ownership of our company by more than 50% by one or more 5% stockholders over a specified time period. The Company updated their Section 382/383 analysis, from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013, regarding the limitation of the net operating losses and research and development credits. Based upon the analysis, the Company determined that no ownership changes occurred during that period. However, previous analysis determined that ownership changes have occurred in years prior to 2012, but will not have a material impact on the future utilization of such carryforwards. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. Accordingly, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increases in our future tax liabilities. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, pursuant to the term loan agreement with Capital Royalty Partners, we are precluded from paying any cash dividends. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. You may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell shares and you may lose the entire amount of the investment. The requirements of being a public company will increase our costs and may strain our resources and divert management’s attention. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Recent legislation permits “emerging growth companies” to implement many of these requirements over a longer period and up to 54 Table of Contents five years from the end of our last fiscal year. We intend to take advantage of this new legislation but cannot guarantee that we will not be required to implement these requirements sooner than budgeted or planned and thereby incur unexpected expenses. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results. Although we have hired additional employees to help us comply with these requirements, in the future we may need to hire more employees or utilize external consultants in order to further support our efforts, which will increase our expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, as well as an increase in stockholder activism, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. New or changing laws, regulations and standards in particular are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or evolving laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Moreover, as a public company that is subject to these rules and regulations, we may find it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain certain types of insurance, and in particular director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain our current levels of such coverage on acceptable terms. We are an “emerging growth company” and we do not know whether the reduced disclosure requirements and relief from certain other significant obligations that are applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that apply to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” These exemptions include the following: • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; • less extensive disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and • exemptions from the requirements to hold a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We intend to take advantage of these exemptions but cannot guarantee that we will not be required to implement these requirements sooner than budgeted or planned and thereby incur unexpected expenses. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, which could result in a reduction in the price of our common stock. 55 Table of Contents Pursuant to the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for so long as we are an “emerging growth company.” Under existing SEC rules and regulations, we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly basis and management will be required to assess the effectiveness of our controls annually. However, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm conducted in connection with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act after we no longer qualify as an “emerging growth company,” may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. We are currently in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting, but we are not currently in compliance with, and we cannot be certain when we will be able to implement the requirements of Section 404(a). For instance, in September 2013, it was determined that we did not maintain effective internal controls over the process for calculating the weighted common shares used to compute basic and diluted net loss per share for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, and this deficiency in our internal controls was deemed to be a material weakness. We subsequently have hired additional individuals with accounting expertise within the finance department. We have also developed and implemented new control procedures over the process for calculating the weighted common shares used to compute basic and diluted net loss per share and we concluded that we had remediated this material weakness as of December 31, 2013. These procedures are subject to ongoing management review and the oversight of the audit committee of our board of directors to ensure that they are operating effectively. We may be at risk for future material weaknesses, particularly if these new procedures do not operate effectively. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control procedures on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an “emerging growth company” under the recently enacted JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management’s assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. 56 Table of Contents The price of our common stock might fluctuate significantly. Prior to our recently completed initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile for the foreseeable future. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • perceptions about the market acceptance of our products and the recognition of our brand; • overall performance of the equity markets; • introduction of proposed products, or announcements of significant contracts, licenses or acquisitions, by us or our competitors; • legislative, political or regulatory developments; • issuance of securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • additions or departures of key personnel; • threatened or actual litigation and government investigations; • sale of shares of our common stock by us or members of our management; and • general economic conditions. These and other factors might cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies across many industries. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Accordingly, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources, and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of shares of our common stock could materially reduce the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of our shares intend to sell such shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock which would impair our ability to raise future capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We have outstanding 22,925,614 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2013, of which approximately 13,470,317 shares are restricted securities that may be sold only in accordance with the resale restrictions under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding options to purchase 4,539,616 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,358,090 shares of common stock that, if exercised, will result in these additional shares becoming available for sale. As of December 31, 2013, there are also an aggregate of 3,302,621 shares of our common stock reserved for future grant or issuance under our 2013 Equity Incentive Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Certain holders of shares of common stock will have the right, subject to various conditions and limitations, to include their shares in registration statements relating to our securities. In addition, these holders are entitled to piggyback registration rights with respect to the registration under the Securities Act of shares of our common stock. Shares of common stock sold under these registration statements can be freely sold in the public market. In the event registration rights are exercised and a large number of shares of common stock are sold in the public market, those sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. 57 Table of Contents In the future, we also may issue our securities if we need to raise additional capital. The number of new shares of our common stock issued in connection with raising additional capital could constitute a material portion of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 