D. Risk Factors Risk Relating to Our Structure, Shares and American Depositary Shares Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, restrict our ability to react to changes to our business, and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt. We incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the acquisition of Talecris. In order to finance the acquisition, (i) we entered into a credit and guaranty agreement dated as of November 23, 2010 (as amended by the first and second amendments thereto, the “Original Senior Credit Agreement”) to provide for (a) senior term loans aggregating $2.5 billion and €440 million (the “Original Senior Term Loans”) and (b) revolving commitments in the amounts of $50 million, €36.7 million ($50 million equivalent) and the $200 million equivalent in multicurrencies (the “Original Revolving Credit Facilities”) and (ii) we issued $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.25% senior notes due 2018 (“Notes”). As of December 31, 2011, our outstanding debt consisted primarily of $2.5 billion and €438.9 million outstanding under the Original Senior Term Loans and $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of our Notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we had €94.9 million of indebtedness under other bank loans and €31.7 in capital lease obligations. On February 29, 2012, we entered into an amendment and restatement of the Original Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement”), which provided for the repricing of all of the Original Senior Term Loans and the Original 6 Table of Contents Revolving Facilities. The Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement provides for (i) senior term loans aggregating $2.3 billion and €420 million (the “Amended Senior Term Loans”), and (ii) revolving commitments in the amounts of $140 million, €22 million and the $35 million equivalent in multicurrencies (the “Amended Revolving Credit Facilities”). As of the date of this annual report of Form 20-F, the Amended Senior Term Loans were fully funded and no amounts have been drawn on the Amended Revolving Credit Facilities. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay amounts due in respect to our indebtedness. See Item 5 of this Part I, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources of Credit,” for the terms of the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement and Notes and for more detailed information regarding our indebtedness. Our high level of indebtedness could have significant adverse effects on our business, including the following: • our high level of indebtedness makes it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt; • our high level of indebtedness makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; • all of the indebtedness outstanding under our purchase money indebtedness, equipment financing and real estate mortgages will have a prior ranking claim on the underlying assets; • our ability to fund a change of control offer may be limited; • our high level of indebtedness could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; and • we may be restricted from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting other business opportunities. We expect to use cash flow from operations to pay our expenses and amounts due under our outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and our anticipated growth in revenue and cash flow may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then-existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness or to achieve any of these alternatives could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still incur significantly more debt. This could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement and the indenture that governs our Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these exceptions could be substantial. As of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, there is $140 million, €22 million and the $35 million equivalent in multicurrencies of undrawn availability under the Amended Revolving Credit Facilities. In addition, the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement also provides for incremental facilities that include an increase to the existing Revolving Credit Facilities and the establishment of one or more new term loan commitments, by an amount not to exceed $600 million in the aggregate. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business associated with our high level of debt could intensify. For more information regarding our indebtedness, see Item 5 of this Part I, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sources of Credit.” 7 Table of Contents To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. A significant reduction in our operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic conditions, increased competition or other events beyond our control could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Senior Credit Facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity of the debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement or our Notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Covenants in our debt agreements will restrict our business in many ways. The agreements governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations applicable to us contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred equity; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement. If the lenders under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement and our other indebtedness, including our Notes. Our borrowings under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. See Item 11 of this Part I, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk.” Our ability to meet our financial obligations depends on our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Our principal assets are the equity interests that we hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on our outstanding debt. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on dividends or, in the case of foreign subsidiaries, restrictions on repatriation of earnings under applicable local law and monetary transfer restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings. Our subsidiaries are 8 Table of Contents permitted under the terms of our indebtedness to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict payments from those subsidiaries to us. We cannot assure you that agreements governing current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit those subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient cash to fund payments on our indebtedness when due. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and, except for existing and future subsidiaries that will be guarantors of certain indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available to us for such payment. We are a foreign private issuer under the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and, thus, are exempt from a number of rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are permitted to file less information with the Securities and Exchange Commission than a company incorporated in the U.S. As a foreign private issuer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain rules under the Exchange Act, including the proxy rules, which impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act; we are not required to file financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles; and we are not required to comply with SEC Regulation FD, which imposes certain restrictions on the selective disclosure of material information. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are not subject to the reporting or short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our Class A shares or Class B shares. Accordingly, you may receive less information about us than you would receive about a company incorporated in the U.S. and may be afforded less protection under the U.S. federal securities laws than you would be afforded with respect to a company incorporated in the U.S. If we lose our status as a foreign private issuer at some future time, we will no longer be exempt from such rules and, among other things, will be required to file periodic reports and financial statements as if we were a company incorporated in the U.S. The costs incurred in fulfilling these additional regulatory requirements could be substantial. Additionally, pursuant to The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, Listing Rules, as a foreign private issuer, we may elect to follow our home country practice in lieu of the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rule 5600 Series, with the exception of those rules which are required to be followed pursuant to the provisions of NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615(a)(3). We have elected to follow Spanish practices in lieu of the requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rule 5600 Series to the extent permitted under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615(a)(3). See Item 16.G. of Part II, “Corporate Governance.” If we discover significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under U.S. federal securities laws, which also could affect the market price of our American Depositary Shares or our ability to remain listed on NASDAQ. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention of those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting. To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our or our consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting, such material weakness or significant deficiency may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under U.S. federal securities laws, which could affect our ability to remain listed on NASDAQ. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, or the rating of our debt. The Grifols family may continue to exercise significant influence over the conduct of our business. The Grifols family and Scranton Enterprises B.V. own, directly and indirectly, 35.3% of our Class A shares. The Class A shares exercise 100% of voting control of our company. As a result, the Grifols family and Scranton Enterprises B.V. may exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholders’ approval including, among other things, the election of our board of directors, or Board, dividend policy and certain fundamental corporate action, such as the issuance of bonds, a merger or a dissolution. Conflicts may arise between the interests of the principal shareholders and those of the other shareholders, and the principal shareholders may choose to resolve the conflict in a way that does not coincide with the interests of the other shareholders. 9 Table of Contents The market price of our Class B ADSs on NASDAQ may be volatile. The market price of our Class B ADSs may be volatile as a result of various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • market expectations for our financial performance; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition; • changes in the estimates of our results of operations by securities analysts; • potential or actual sales of blocks of our Class B ADSs in the market by any shareholder or short selling of our Class B ADSs. Any such transaction could occur at any time or from time to time, with our without notice; • the entrance of new competitors or new products in the markets in which we operate; • volatility in the market as a whole; and • the risk factors mentioned in this section. The market price of our Class B ADSs may be adversely affected by any of the preceding or other factors regardless of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro may increase the risk of holding our ADSs or shares. The Spanish securities market for equity securities consists of four stock exchanges located in Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia, or, collectively, the Spanish Stock Exchanges. The majority of the transactions conducted on the Spanish Stock Exchanges are done through the Automated Quotation System (Sistema Interbancario Bursátil Español, or S.I.B.E.). Our Class A shares and Class B shares are listed on the Spanish Stock Exchanges and quoted on the Automated Quotation System in euro. In addition, our Class B shares are traded in the U.S. on the NASDAQ Global Select Market in the form of ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro may result in temporary differences between the value of our ADSs and the value of our shares, which may result in heavy trading by investors seeking to exploit such differences. This may increase the volatility of, and have an adverse effect on, the price of our shares or ADSs. In addition, as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of our ADSs would receive upon the sale in Spain of any shares withdrawn from the ADR depositary and the U.S. dollar equivalent of any cash dividends paid in euro on our shares represented by the ADSs could also decline. Subscription (or preemptive) rights may be unavailable to U.S. holders of our shares or ADSs. In the case of a future increase of our registered share capital, existing shareholders will generally be entitled to subscription (or preemptive) rights pursuant to Spanish law, unless waived by a resolution of the shareholders or, if such power has been delegated to the Board pursuant to a shareholders’ resolution, by a resolution of the Board and except in certain situations, such as capital increases made for an in-kind contribution, in which subscription (or preemptive) rights are not applicable by law. Holders of the Class B shares will generally not have a right to vote on any resolution on a capital increase or on the waiver of subscription (or preemptive) rights, unless such resolution does not treat the Class B shares in the same way as the Class A shares, except in the limited circumstances set out in the Articles of Association of Grifols, S.A., or Articles of Association. Even if preemptive rights are granted, holders of our ADSs or U.S. resident shareholders may not be able to exercise subscription (or preemptive) rights, in which case holders of our ADSs could be substantially diluted, unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, or Securities Act, is effective with respect to such rights and the shares for which they give such right or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We intend to evaluate at the time of any rights offering the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration requirements, as well as the benefits of enabling the exercise of subscription (or preemptive) rights for the shares. In doing so, we will also evaluate any other factors that we may consider appropriate at the time. There can be no assurance that we will decide to comply with such registration requirements. If no such registration requirements are satisfied, the depositary will sell the subscription (or preemptive) rights relating to the ADSs on deposit and will distribute the proceeds of such sale, if any, to the holders of the ADSs. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case no value will be given for these rights. 10 Table of Contents ADS holders may be subject to limitations on the transfer of their ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when the books of the depositary are closed or if such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the depositary or by us because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission or under any provision of the deposit agreement. Moreover, the surrender of ADSs and withdrawal of our shares may be suspended subject to the payment of fees, taxes and similar charges or if we direct the depositary at any time to cease new issuances and withdrawals of our shares during periods specified by us in connection with shareholders’ meetings, the payment of dividends or as otherwise reasonably necessary for compliance with any applicable laws or government regulations. Your ability to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws may be limited. We are a company organized under the laws of Spain, and most of our subsidiaries are also incorporated outside of the U.S. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries are located outside of the U.S. In addition, nearly all of our directors and officers and certain of our subsidiaries’ officers are nationals or residents of countries other than the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or certain subsidiaries or their directors or officers with respect to matters arising under the Securities Act or to enforce against them judgments of courts of the U.S. predicated upon civil liability under the Securities Act. It may also be difficult to recover fully in the U.S. on any judgment rendered against such persons or against us or certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Spain of original actions, or of actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts of liabilities, predicated solely upon the securities laws of the U.S. If a judgment was obtained outside Spain and efforts were made to enforce the judgment in Spain, there is some doubt that Spanish courts would agree to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment. Accordingly, even if you obtain a favorable judgment in a U.S. court, you may be required to re-litigate your claim in Spain. Risks Relating to Our Business Our manufacturing processes are complex and involve biological intermediates that are susceptible to contamination and variations in yield. Plasma is a raw material that is susceptible to damage and contamination and may contain human pathogens, any of which would render the plasma unsuitable as raw material for further manufacturing. For instance, improper storage of plasma by us or third-party suppliers, if any, may require us to destroy some of our raw material. If unsuitable plasma is not identified and discarded prior to the release of the plasma to our manufacturing processes, it may be necessary to discard intermediate or finished product made from that plasma or to recall any finished product released to the market, resulting in a charge to cost of goods sold. The manufacture of our plasma products is an extremely complex process of fractionation (separating the plasma into component proteins), purification, filling and finishing. Our products can become non-releasable or otherwise fail to meet our specifications through a failure of one or more of our product testing, manufacturing, process controls and quality assurance processes. We may detect instances in which an unreleased product was produced without adherence to our manufacturing procedures, or plasma used in our production process was not collected or stored in a compliant manner consistent with cGMP regulations or other regulations. Such an event of noncompliance would likely result in our determination that the impacted products should not be released and therefore should be destroyed. For example, a malfunction of the Gamunex® intravenous immunoglobulin, or IVIG, chromatography system just prior to Talecris’ formation transaction in 2005 resulted in the processing of IVIG products containing elevated levels of antibodies for over one month. Talecris’ total cost related to this incident, including the costs of product loss, investigation, testing, disposal, and other remedial actions, was approximately $41.6 million. Talecris subsequently recovered from Bayer HealthCare LLC, or Bayer, $10.7 million through its 2005 working capital adjustment and $9.0 million in the first quarter of 2007 through a settlement. Once we have manufactured our plasma-derived products, they must be handled carefully and kept at appropriate temperatures. Our failure, or the failure of third parties that supply, ship or distribute our products, to properly care for our plasma-derived products may require that such products be destroyed. While we expect to write off small amounts of work-in-process inventories in the ordinary course of business due to the complex nature of plasma, our processes and our products, unanticipated events may lead to write-offs and other costs materially in excess of our expectations. We have in the past had issues with product quality and purity that have caused us to write off the value of our product. Such write-offs and other costs could cause material fluctuations in our profitability. Furthermore, contamination of our products could cause investors, consumers or other third parties with whom we conduct business to lose confidence in the reliability 11 Table of Contents of our manufacturing procedures, which could adversely affect sales and profits. In addition, faulty or contaminated products that are unknowingly distributed could result in patient harm, threaten the reputation of our products and expose us to product liability damages and claims. Additionally, due to the nature of plasma, there will be variations in the biologic properties of the plasma we collect or purchase for fractionation that may result in fluctuations in the obtainable yield of desired fractions, even if cGMP is followed. Lower yields may limit production of our plasma-derived products due to capacity constraints. If these batches of plasma with lower yields impact production for extended periods, it may reduce the total capacity of product that we could market and increase our cost of goods sold, thus reducing our profitability. Once our products are approved and marketed, we must continually monitor them for signs that their use may elicit serious and unexpected side effects, which could jeopardize our ability to continue marketing our products. We may also be required to conduct post-approval clinical trials as a condition to licensing a product. As for all pharmaceutical products, the use of our products sometimes produces undesirable side effects or adverse reactions or events, or, collectively, “adverse events.” For the most part, these adverse events are known, are expected to occur at some frequency and are described in the products’ labeling. Known adverse events of a number of our products include allergic or anaphylactic reactions including shock and the transmission of infective agents. Further, the use of certain products sometimes produces additional adverse events, which are detailed below. • The use of albumin sometimes produces the following adverse events: hypervolaemia, circulatory overload, pulmonary edema, hyperhydration and allergic manifestations including urticaria, chills, fever and changes in respiration, pulse and blood pressure. • The use of blood clotting factor ix, or Factor IX, sometimes produces the following adverse events: the induction of neutralizing antibodies; thromboembolism, including myocardial infarction; disseminated intravascular coagulation; venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism; and, in the case of treatment for immune tolerance induction, nephrotic syndrome. • The use of the anti-hemophilic blood clotting factor, or Factor VIII, sometimes produces the following adverse events: the induction of neutralizing antibodies, thromboembolic events and hemolytic anemia or hemolysis. • The use of IVIG sometimes produces the following adverse events: nausea, vomiting, asthenia, pyrexia, rigors, injection site reaction, allergic or anaphylactic reaction, aseptic meningitis, arthralgia, back pain, dizziness, headache, rash, pruritus, urticaria, hemolysis or hemolytic anemia, hyperproteinemia, increased serum viscosity and hyponatremia, thromboembolic reactions such as myocardial infarction, stroke, pulmonary embolism and deep vein thromboses, transfusion-related acute lung injury and renal dysfunction and acute renal failure. • The use of anti-hepatitis B IVIG sometimes produces the following adverse events: thromboembolic reactions such as myocardial infarction, stroke, pulmonary embolism and deep vein thromboses, aseptic meningitis, hemolytic anemia or hemolysis and acute renal failure. • The use of Plasbumin® 5%, 20% or 25% sometimes produces the following adverse events: allergic manifestations including urticaria, chills, fever and changes in respiration, pulse and blood pressure. • The use of Plasmanate® sometimes produces the following adverse events: hypotension, flushing, urticaria, back pain, nausea and headache. • The use of Koate®-DVI, which we license exclusively in the U.S. to Kedrion S.p.A, a corporation organized under the laws of Italy, or Kedrion, sometimes produces the following adverse events: allergic type reactions; tingling in the arm, ear and face; blurred vision; headache; nausea; stomach ache; and jittery feeling. • The use of Prolastin® or its successor in the U.S. and Canada, Prolastin®-C, alpha-1 proteinase inhibitor, or A1PI, sometimes produces the following adverse events: dyspnea, tachycardia, rash, chest pain, chills, influenza-like symptoms, hypersensitivity, hypotension and hypertension. In addition, the use of our products may be associated with serious and unexpected adverse events, or with less serious reactions at a greater than expected frequency. This may be especially true when our products are used in critically ill patient populations. When these unexpected events are reported to us, we must make a thorough investigation to determine causality and implications for product safety. These events must also be specifically reported to the applicable regulatory authorities. If our evaluation concludes, or regulatory authorities perceive, that there is an unreasonable risk associated with the product, we would be obligated to withdraw the impacted lot(s) of that product. Furthermore, an unexpected adverse event caused by a new product could be recognized only after extensive use of the product, which could expose us to product liability risks, enforcement action by regulatory authorities and damage to our reputation and public image. 12 Table of Contents Once we produce a product, we rely on physicians to prescribe and administer it as we have directed and for the indications described on the labeling. It is not, however, unusual for physicians to prescribe our products for unapproved, or off-label, uses or in a manner that is inconsistent with our directions. To the extent such off-label uses and departures from our administration directions become pervasive and produce results such as reduced efficacy or other adverse effects, the reputation of our products in the marketplace may suffer. When a new product is approved, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or other regulatory authorities may require post-approval clinical trials, sometimes called Phase IV clinical trials. If the results of such trials are unfavorable, this could result in the loss of the license to market the product, with a resulting loss of sales. Our ability to continue manufacturing and distributing our products depends on our and our suppliers’ continued adherence to cGMP regulations. The manufacturing processes for our products are governed by detailed written procedures and federal regulations that set forth cGMP requirements for blood and blood products. Our quality operations unit monitors compliance with these procedures and regulations, and the conformance of materials, manufacturing intermediates and final products to their specifications. Failure to adhere to established procedures or regulations, or to meet a specification, could require that a product or material be rejected and destroyed. There are relatively few opportunities for us to rework, reprocess or salvage nonconforming materials or products. Our adherence to cGMP regulations and the effectiveness of our quality systems are periodically assessed through inspections of our facilities by the FDA and analogous regulatory authorities of other countries. We cannot assure you that we will not be cited for deficiencies in the future. If deficiencies are noted during an inspection, we must take action to correct those deficiencies and to demonstrate to the regulatory authorities that our corrections have been effective. If serious deficiencies are noted or if we are unable to prevent recurrences, we may have to recall product or suspend operations until appropriate measures can be implemented. We are required to report some deviations from procedures to the FDA. Even if we determine that the deviations were not material, the FDA could require us to take similar measures. Since cGMP reflects ever-evolving standards, we regularly need to update our manufacturing processes and procedures to comply with cGMP. These changes may cause us to incur costs without improving our profitability or the safety of our products. For example, more sensitive testing assays (if and when they become available) may be required or existing procedures or processes may require revalidation, all of which may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the manufacturing of a product or launch of a new product. Changes in manufacturing processes, including a change in the location where the product is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior FDA review and approval or revalidation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with cGMP. There may be comparable foreign requirements. For example, we have finished the construction of a new plant at our facility located in Los Angeles, California, or our Los Angeles facility, for the production of IVIG and we have begun the validation process with the appropriate regulatory authorities. To validate our manufacturing processes and procedures following completion of upgraded facilities, we must demonstrate that the processes and procedures at the upgraded facilities are comparable to those currently in place at our facilities. To provide such a comparative analysis, both the existing processes and the processes that we expect to be implemented at our upgraded facilities must comply with the regulatory standards prevailing at the time that our expected upgrade is completed. In addition, regulatory requirements, including cGMP regulations, continually evolve. Failure to adjust our operations to conform to new standards as established and interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities would create a compliance risk that could impair our ability to sustain normal operations. In addition, we have completed the process of transferring the manufacture of our Thrombate III® product from Bayer’s Berkeley, California, biologics manufacturing facility to our Clayton, North Carolina plasma fractionation and manufacturing facility, or Clayton facility, that we are currently validating with regulatory approval expected in 2012. We cannot guarantee that we have a sufficient inventory of intermediates and finished product to meet demand until the new facility is approved and manufacturing can recommence. To validate our manufacturing processes and procedures following completion of the upgraded facilities, we must demonstrate that the processes and procedures at the upgraded facilities are comparable to those currently in place at Bayer’s facilities. In order to provide such a comparative analysis, both the existing processes and the processes that we expect to be implemented at our upgraded facilities must comply with the regulatory standards prevailing at the time that our expected upgrade is completed. If the FDA does not approve the transfer, our ability to market our Thrombate III® product will be seriously impaired or eliminated. In addition, regulatory requirements, including cGMP regulations, continually evolve. Failure to adjust our operations to conform to new standards as established and interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities would create a compliance risk that could impair our ability to sustain normal operations. A number of inspections by the FDA and foreign control authorities, including the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, have been conducted or are expected at our plasma collection centers in 2012. Some of these inspections are of licensed centers to 13 Table of Contents assess ongoing compliance with cGMP. If the FDA (or other authorities) finds these centers not to be in compliance, our ongoing operations or plans to expand plasma collections would be adversely affected. We would become supply-constrained and our financial performance would suffer if we could not obtain adequate quantities of FDA-approved source plasma. In order for plasma to be used in the manufacturing of our products, the individual centers at which the plasma is collected must be licensed by the FDA and approved by the regulatory authorities, such as the EMA, of those countries in which we sell our products. When a new plasma collection center is opened and on an ongoing basis after its licensure, it must be inspected by the FDA and the EMA for compliance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements. An unsatisfactory inspection could prevent a new center from being licensed or risk the suspension or revocation of an existing license. In order for a plasma collection center to maintain its license, its operations must continue to conform to cGMP and other regulatory requirements. In the event that we determine a plasma collection center did not comply with cGMP in collecting plasma, we may be unable to use and may ultimately destroy plasma collected from that center, which would be recorded as a charge to cost of goods. Additionally, if noncompliance in the plasma collection process is identified after the impacted plasma has been pooled with compliant plasma from other sources, entire plasma pools, in-process intermediate materials and final products could be impacted. Consequently, we could experience significant inventory impairment provisions and write-offs which could adversely affect our business and financial results. During 2008, Talecris experienced such an event at one of their plasma collection centers, which resulted in a charge to cost of goods sold of $23.3 million, for which they subsequently recovered $19.4 million through December 31, 2010. In this particular instance, a portion of the impacted plasma had been released to manufacturing prior to Talecris’ detection of the issue. We plan to obtain our supplies of plasma for use in our manufacturing processes through collections at our plasma collection centers and through selective acquisitions or remodeling and relocations of existing centers. This strategy is dependent upon our ability to successfully integrate new centers, to obtain FDA and other necessary approvals for the remaining unlicensed centers, to maintain a cGMP compliant environment in all centers, and to expand production and attract donors to our centers. Our ability to increase and improve the efficiency of production at our plasma collection centers may be affected by changes in the economic environment and population in selected regions where we operate plasma collection centers, by the entry of competitive centers into regions where we operate, by misjudging the demographic potential of individual regions where we expect to increase production and attract new donors, by unexpected facility related challenges, or by unexpected management challenges at selected plasma collection centers. A significant disruption in our supply of plasma could have a material adverse effect on our business and our growth plans. The majority of our revenue depends on our access to U.S. source plasma (plasma obtained through plasmapheresis), the principal raw material for our plasma derivative products. Our ability to increase revenues depends substantially on increased access to plasma. We expect that our plasma needs through 2015 will be met through the volumes of collection at our 147 plasma collection centers in the U.S. and supplemented by approximately 800,000 liters of plasma per year to be purchased from third-party suppliers pursuant to multiple plasma purchase agreements. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of source plasma, we may be unable to find an alternative cost-effective source of plasma. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of source plasma, we would be limited in our ability to maintain current manufacturing levels of plasma derivative products. As a result, we could experience a substantial decrease in net sales or profit margins, a loss of customers, a negative effect on our reputation as a reliable supplier of plasma derivative products or a substantial delay in our production growth plans. Our current business plan envisages an increase in the production of plasma derivative products, which depends on our ability to increase plasma collections or improve product yield. The ability to increase plasma collections may be limited, our supply of plasma could be disrupted or the cost of plasma could increase substantially, as a result of numerous factors, including: • A reduction in the donor pool. Regulators in most of the largest markets for plasma derivative products, including the U.S., restrict the use of plasma collected from specific countries and regions in the manufacture of plasma derivative products. For example, the appearance of the variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob, or mad cow, disease, which resulted in the suspension of the use of plasma collected from U.K. residents and concern over the safety of blood products, which has led to increased domestic and foreign regulatory control over the collection and testing of plasma and the disqualification of certain segments of the population from the donor pool, have significantly reduced the potential donor pool. The appearance of new viral strains could further reduce the potential donor pool. Also, improvements in socioeconomic conditions in the areas 14 Table of Contents where our and our suppliers’ collection centers are located could reduce the attractiveness of financial incentives for donors, resulting in increased donor fees or a reduction in the number of donors. • Regulatory requirements. The collection of plasma is heavily regulated, and our ability to collect plasma (or to increase plasma collection) through our collection centers, or to obtain plasma from other suppliers, may be limited or disrupted by the inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory licenses to operate plasma collection centers in a timely manner or at all, or by the temporary or permanent shutdown of our or our suppliers’ plasma collection centers as a result of regulatory violations. • Plasma supply sources. In recent years, there has been vertical integration in the industry as plasma derivatives manufacturers have been acquiring plasma collection centers. Any significant disruption in the supply of plasma or an increased demand for plasma may require plasma from alternative sources, which may not be available on a timely basis. A significant portion of our revenue has historically been derived from sales of our immunoglobulin products and we expect that they will continue to comprise a significant portion of our sales. Any adverse market event with respect to these products would have a material adverse effect on us. We have historically derived a significant portion of our net sales from our immunoglobulin products, including our IVIG products. If either of our IVIG products, Flebogamma® or Gamunex®, or Gamunex®-C immunoglobulin, lost significant sales or was substantially or completely displaced in the market, we would lose a significant and material source of our net revenue. Similarly, if either Flebogamma® or Gamunex®-C/Gamunex® was to become the subject of litigation or an adverse governmental ruling requiring us to cease sales of it, our business could be adversely affected. Although we do not currently anticipate any significant decrease in the sales of any of these products, a significant decrease could result from plasma procurement and manufacturing issues resulting in lower product availability for sales and changing market conditions. Our products face increased competition. Our products have experienced increased competition. Each of Baxter and CSL Behring has launched 10% liquid IVIG products in the U.S. Octopharma and Bio Products Laboratory has launched 5% liquid IVIG products. Additionally, Biotest is seeking approval for a 10% liquid IVIG product in the U.S., which, if approved, will further increase competition among liquid IVIG products. As competition has increased, competitors have discounted the price of IVIG products. Furthermore, many customers are increasingly price sensitive with respect to IVIG products. If customers demand lower priced products from our competitors, we may lose sales or be forced to lower our prices. The FDA recently approved Gamunex®-C for the subcutaneous route of administration for the A1PI indication. In 2010, CSL Behring received FDA approval for and launched Hizentra Immune Globulin Subcutaneous (Human) 20% liquid. Baxter also recently obtained approval for the subcutaneous use of its 10% liquid IVIG, and it has conducted a trial to obtain FDA orphan drug designation for the product in neurology, which was already granted in the European Union in 2011. We also believe that our competitors are developing several new products and technologies, which may include an improved route of administration for indications beyond A1PI. Until December 2002, Talecris’ A1PI product, Prolastin® A1PI, was the only plasma product licensed and marketed for the therapy of congenital A1PI deficiency-related emphysema in the U.S. Baxter and CSL Behring received licenses for Aralast and Zemaira, respectively, which were launched in the U.S. in 2003. In addition, Kamada Ltd. received approval of its biological license application, or BLA, for its A1PI, Glassia, on July 1, 2010. While LFB Biomedicaments has a license in France for Alfalastin, we have the only licensed A1PI products with EMA Community marketing authorization. Of our competitors that are currently pursuing licensing trials in Europe, one offers a more concentrated intravenous formulation than the ones we offer in Europe. Should our competitors receive approvals in Europe sooner than expected, it will impact our unit volumes and share of sales. Our current and future competitors may increase their sales, lower their prices or change their distribution model, causing harm to our product sales and financial condition. Also, if the attrition rate of our A1PI patient base accelerates faster than we have forecast, we would have fewer patients and lower sales volume. Similarly, if a new AIP1 formulation with a significantly improved rate of administration (such as aerosol inhalation) is developed, the market share of our A1PI products could be negatively impacted. Similarly, several companies are attempting to develop products which could be substitutions for A1PI, including retinoic acid, oral synthetic elastase inhibitors and gene therapy. While these products are in the early stages of development, they may eventually be successfully developed and launched. In addition, our plasma-derived products face competition from non-plasma products and other courses of treatments. For example, two Rho(D) intramuscular (hyperimmune) globulins for intravenous administration, Cangene’s WinRho SDF and CSL 15 Table of Contents Behring’s Rhophylac, have been approved to treat immune thrombocytopenic purpura, or ITP. Additionally, in 2008, GSK and Amgen launched thrombopoietin inhibitors targeting ITP patients, which may reduce the demand for IVIG to treat ITP. New treatments, such as small molecules, monoclonal or recombinant products, may also be developed for indications for which our products are now used. Recombinant Factor VIII and Factor IX products compete with our own plasma-derived product in the treatment of hemophilia A and B and are perceived by many to have lower risks of disease transmission. Additional recombinant products, some with extended half-lives, could compete with our products and reduce the demand for our products. Crucell and Sanofi Pasteur have completed Phase II clinical trials for a monoclonal rabies product to compete with our rabies hyperimmune product. In 2010, Biotest introduced a subcutaneous anti-hepatitis preparation and is registering the product in European countries in which we market our anti-hepatitis B IVIG, which could negatively impact our sales. Also, in February 2009, GTC Biotherapeutics obtained FDA approval of a competitive antithrombin III, or ATIII, a product derived from the milk of transgenic goats for the treatment of hereditary antithrombin deficiency. This product now directly competes with our product, Thrombate® III, which had previously been the only FDA-approved ATIII product. Since the late 1980s, Talecris (prior to 2005, with Bayer) had been the “supplier of record” for the Canadian blood system. Talecris was awarded five-year contracts with Canadian Blood Services and Héma-Québec, the Canadian blood system operators, in December 2007 that became effective April 2008. We assumed these contracts in connection with the acquisition of Talecris, making us the largest supplier of plasma-derived products to these operators. Under these U.S. dollar-based contracts, we fractionate a majority of Canadian plasma and supply a majority of Canadian requirements for IVIG during the contract term. We transport plasma from Canadian Blood Services and Héma-Québec collection centers to our Clayton facility for manufacture, and we return the finished product, along with commercial product, for sale to Canadian Blood Services and Héma-Québec. Canadian Blood Services has elected to pursue a multi-source strategy, and although we will continue to be the primary supplier, we anticipate annual volume declines because of this strategy. Héma-Québec currently has a sole source strategy for fractionation of its plasma but could switch to a multi-source strategy. Talecris had derived, and we expect to continue to derive, significant revenue and profits under these contracts. A failure to maintain contracts with the Canadian blood system operators or any diminution in the volume or price under future contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. New products could render our plasma derivative products less competitive. Our plasma derivative products may face intense competition from alternative products resulting from technological advances. Recombinant Factor IX and Factor IX are currently available and widely used in the U.S. and Europe. In addition, less expensive alternatives have long existed for albumin in its application as a plasma volume expander. If an increased use of alternative products for Factor VIII, Factor IX or albumin makes it uneconomical to produce our plasma-derived products, or if further technological advances improve these products or create other competitive alternatives to our plasma derivative products, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not currently sell any recombinant products. We are developing recombinant versions of A1PI, Factor VIII, Factor IX and plasmin, but we cannot be certain that any of these products will ever be approved or commercialized. As a result, our product offerings may remain plasma-derived, even if our competitors offer competing recombinant products. We face competition from companies with greater financial resources. We operate in highly competitive markets. Our principal competitors include Baxter, Octapharma and CSL Behring. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than us. As a result, they may be able to devote more funds to research and development and new production technologies, as well as to the promotion of their products and business. These competitors may also be able to sustain for longer periods a deliberate substantial reduction in the price of their products or services. The development by a competitor of a similar or superior product or increased pricing competition may result in a reduction in our net sales or a decrease in our profit margins. Our products have historically been subject to supply-driven price fluctuations. Our products, particularly IVIG, have historically been subject to price fluctuations as a result of changes in the production capacity available in the industry, the availability and pricing of plasma, development of competing products and the availability of alternative therapies. Higher prices for plasma-derived products have traditionally spurred increases in plasma production and collection capacity, resulting over time in increased product supply and lower prices. As demand continues to grow, if plasma supply and manufacturing capacity do not commensurately expand, prices tend to increase. The robust demand for plasma-derived products, particularly for IVIG, over the last few years has resulted in efforts on the part of companies, including us, to increase manufacturing capacity and open new plasma collection centers to increase the 16 Table of Contents availability of source plasma. We, or our competitors, may misjudge demand growth and over-invest in expanding plasma collection or manufacturing capacity, which ultimately may result in lower prices for, or inability to sell, our products. If we are unable to obtain product licenses, revenue growth will be negatively affected. Revenue growth depends, among other things, on our ability to have new bioscience and diagnostic products approved for sale in various jurisdictions in a timely manner. The failure to obtain a product license without significant delay, or at all, could materially adversely affect our prospects for revenue growth. Technological changes in the production of plasma derivative products could render our production process uneconomical. Technological advances have accelerated changes in many bioscience industries in recent years. Future technological developments could render our production processes for plasma derivative products uneconomical and may require us to invest substantial amounts of capital to upgrade our facilities. Such investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to fund such investment from existing funds or raise sufficient capital to make such investments. The discovery of new pathogens could slow our growth and adversely affect profit margins. The possible appearance of new pathogens could trigger the need for changes in our existing inactivation and production methods, including the administration of new detection tests. Such a development could result in delays in production until the new methods are in place, as well as increased costs that may not be readily passed on to our customers. Product liability claims or product recalls involving our products or products we distribute could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of plasma-derived therapeutic protein products. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and an even greater risk when we commercially sell any products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products and any product candidates that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs to defend the related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop. Like many plasma fractionators, we have been, and may in the future be, involved in product liability claims relating to our products, including claims alleging the transmission of disease through the use of such products. Plasma is a biological matter that is capable of transmitting viruses and pathogens, whether known or unknown. Therefore, our plasma and plasma derivative products, if not properly collected, tested, inactivated, processed, stored and transported, could cause serious disease and possibly death to the patient. Further, even when we properly affect such steps, there are viral and other infections of plasma which may escape detection using current testing methods and which are not susceptible to inactivation methods. Any transmission of disease through the use of one of our products or third-party products sold by us could result in claims by persons allegedly infected by such products. Our potential product liability also extends to our diagnostic and hospital products. In addition, we sell and distribute third-party products, and the laws of the jurisdictions where we sell or distribute such products could also expose us to product liability claims for those products. Furthermore, the presence of a defect in a product could require us to carry out a recall of such product. A product liability claim or a product recall could result in substantial financial losses, negative reputational repercussions and an inability to retain customers. We have a program of insurance policies designed to protect us and our subsidiaries from product liability claims, and we self-insure a portion of this risk. For information on these policies, see Item 4 of this Part I, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Insurance Coverage.” 17 Table of Contents Claims made against our insurance policies could exceed our limits of coverage. We intend to expand our insurance coverage as our sales grow. However, as product liability insurance is expensive and can be difficult to obtain, a product liability claim could decrease our access to product liability insurance on acceptable terms. In turn, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Our ability to continue to produce safe and effective products depends on the safety of our plasma supply against transmittable diseases. Despite overlapping safeguards, including the screening of donors and other steps to remove or inactivate viruses and other infectious disease-causing agents, the risk of transmissible disease through plasma-derived products cannot be entirely eliminated. If a new infectious disease was to emerge in the human population, the regulatory and public health authorities could impose precautions to limit the transmission of the disease that would impair our ability to procure plasma, manufacture our products or both. Such precautionary measures could be taken before there is conclusive medical or scientific evidence that a disease poses a risk for plasma-derived products. In recent years, new testing and viral inactivation methods have been developed that more effectively detect and inactivate infectious viruses in collected plasma. There can be no assurance, however, that such new testing and inactivation methods will adequately screen for, and inactivate, infectious agents in the plasma used in the production of our products. Plasma and plasma derivative products are fragile, and improper handling of our plasma or plasma derivative products could adversely affect results of operations. Plasma is a raw material that is susceptible to damage. Almost immediately after its collection from a donor, plasma is stored and transported at temperatures that are at least -20 degrees Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit). Once we manufacture plasma derivative products, they must be handled carefully and kept at appropriate temperatures. Our failure, or the failure of third parties that supply, ship or distribute our plasma and plasma derivative products, to properly care for our plasma or plasma derivative products may require us to destroy some raw materials or products. If the volume of plasma or plasma derivative products damaged by such failures was significant, the loss of that plasma or those plasma derivative products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our above-average aging of our receivables has in the past negatively affected and may in the future negatively affect our working capital levels and increase financial costs. Our receivables have an aging average of 83 days, 83 days and 65 days at December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, which is substantially higher than the receivables aging average for the industry in the U.S. Our high receivables aging average is primarily due to significant delays in collection from Spain, Portugal and Italy. The adoption by Spain, effective December 31, 2004, of a European Union directive that requires payment of interest on most receivables from hospitals and clinics that are part of the social security systems in Spain that are more than 60 days overdue has significantly decreased collection delays from these hospitals and clinics. However, we cannot assure that this trend will continue or that the present receivables aging levels for these hospitals and clinics will not increase again, particularly if the funding of these hospitals and clinics is not increased sufficiently by the appropriate governmental health agencies. Failure to receive timely payments for the sale of our products negatively affects our working capital levels and may require us to obtain more short-term financing than would otherwise be needed. Our future success depends on our ability to retain members of our senior management and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive and scientific teams. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development, operational and commercialization objectives. In particular, we believe the loss of the services of any of Víctor Grifols Roura, Juan Ignacio Twose Roura, Ramón Riera Roca, Alfredo Arroyo Guerra, Carlos Roura Fernández, Vicente Blanquer Torre, Eva Bastida Tubau, Mateo Florencio Borrás Humbert, Antonio Viñes Páres, Montserrat Lloveras Calvo, David Ian Bell, Gregory Gene Rich, Shinji Wada, Alberto Grifols Roura, Francisco Javier Jorba Ribes, Nuria Pascual Lapeña, Mary Kuhn or Joel Abelson would significantly and negatively impact our business. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our executive officers. Recruiting and retaining qualified operations, finance and accounting, scientific, clinical and sales and marketing personnel will be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms, given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring 18 Table of Contents of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate qualified and experienced personnel, we could lose customers and suffer reduced profitability. Even if we are successful in attracting and retaining such personnel, competition for such employees may significantly increase our compensation costs and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Federal cGMP regulations also require that the personnel we employ and hold responsible for the collection, processing, testing, storage or distribution of blood or blood components be adequate in number, educational background, training (including professional training as necessary) and experience, or combination thereof, and have capabilities commensurate with their assigned functions, a thorough understanding of the procedures or control operations they perform, the necessary training or experience and adequate information concerning the application of relevant cGMP requirements to their individual responsibilities. Our failure to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel may result in a regulatory violation, affect product quality, require the recall or market withdrawal of affected product or result in a suspension or termination of our license to market our products, or any combination thereof. Our business requires substantial capital to operate and grow and to achieve our strategy of realizing increased operating leverage, including the completion of several large capital projects. We intend to undertake several large capital projects that will allow us to expand our production capabilities and achieve operating leverage. Capital projects of this magnitude involve technology and project management risks. Technologies that have worked well in a laboratory or in a pilot plant may cost more or not perform as well, or at all, in full-scale operations. Projects may run over budget or be delayed. We cannot be certain that these projects will be completed in a timely manner or that we will maintain our compliance with cGMP, and we may need to spend additional amounts to achieve compliance. Additionally, by the time these multi-year projects are completed, market conditions may differ significantly from our assumptions regarding the number of competitors, customer demand, alternative therapies, reimbursement and public policy, and as a result, capital returns might not be realized. We plan on spending substantial sums in capital and operating expense over the next five years to obtain the approval of the FDA, and other regulatory agencies, for new indications for existing products, to enhance the facilities in which and processes by which we manufacture existing products, to develop new product delivery mechanisms for existing products, to strengthen our plasma collection system and to develop innovative product additions. We face a number of obstacles to successfully converting these efforts into profitable products, including but not limited to the successful development of an experimental product for use in clinical trials, the design of clinical study protocols acceptable to the FDA and other regulatory agencies, the successful outcome of clinical trials, our ability to scale our manufacturing processes to produce commercial quantities or successfully transition technology, the approval of the FDA and other regulatory agencies of our product or process and our ability to successfully market an approved product with our new process or new indication. Our planned capital spending is expected to be significant over the next four years. We are undertaking an investment plan that involves cumulative capital expenditures of approximately €560 million to €600 million through 2015. The amount and timing of future capital spending is dependent upon a number of factors, including market conditions, regulatory requirements and the extent and timing of particular projects, among other things. Our ability to grow our business is dependent upon the timely completion of these facilities and obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals. To finance these various activities, we may need to incur future debt or issue additional equity if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient, and we may not be able to structure our debt obligations on favorable economic terms. As a result of the acquisition, we have substantial indebtedness, which may adversely affect our ability to structure our debt obligations on favorable economic terms. We may not be able to develop some of our international operations successfully. We currently conduct sales in 100 countries. The successful operation of such geographically dispersed resources requires considerable management and financial resources. In particular, we must bridge our business culture to the business culture of each country in which we operate. In addition, international operations and the provision of services in foreign markets are subject to additional risks, such as changing market conditions, currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade barriers, exchange controls, regulatory changes, changes to tax regimes, foreign investment limitations, civil disturbances and war. Furthermore, if an area in which we have significant operations or an area into which we are looking to expand suffers an economic recession or currency devaluation, our net sales and accounts receivable collections in that region will likely decline substantially or we may not be able to successfully expand in that region. 19 Table of Contents We are susceptible to interest rate variations. We use issuances of debt and bank borrowings as a source of funding and, following the acquisition of Talecris, our level of debt has increased significantly. A majority of our interest-bearing debt at December 31, 2011 bore interest at a floating rate, at a spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, for our U.S. dollar-denominated debt and at a spread over the Euro Interbank Offered Rate, or EURIBOR, for our euro-denominated debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had interest-bearing senior debt aggregating $3.6 million (€2.8 billion equivalent) and €438.9 million outstanding (not including $50 million, €36.7 million ($50 million equivalent) and the $200 million equivalent in multicurrencies of undrawn availability under the Original Revolving Credit Facilities), of which an aggregate of $2.5 billion (€1.9 billion equivalent) and €438.9 million bore a floating rate of interest. Pursuant to mandatory hedging requirements under the Original Senior Credit Facilities, as of December 31, 2011, 61% of our U.S. dollar-denominated debt and 23% of our euro-denominated debt thereunder was hedged at a fixed rate. However, there can be no assurance that such instruments will be successful at reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. Any increase in interest rates payable by us, which could be adversely affected by, among other things, our inability to meet certain financial ratios, would increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 11 of this Part I, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk.” Our results of operations and financial condition may be affected by adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, especially a significant shift in the value of the euro as compared to the U.S. dollar. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the euro. For example, we are exposed to currency fluctuations with respect to other currencies such as the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the Malaysian ringgit and the Argentine, Mexican and Chilean pesos. The majority of our sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 were denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, currency fluctuations among the euro, the U.S. dollar and the other currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency translation gains and losses in the past and will likely do so in the future. As a result, we could incur unanticipated gains and losses as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We are also exposed to risk based on the payment of U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, our long-term U.S. dollar-denominated debt consisted of (i) $2.5 billion under the Senior Term Loans, (ii) $140 million of undrawn availability under the Original Revolving Credit Facilities (not including an additional $200 million equivalent in multicurrencies of undrawn availability which can be drawn in either U.S. dollars or euro) and (iii) $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of our Notes. Under the Amended and Restated Senior Credit Agreement, our U.S. dollar-denominated debt consists of $2.3 billion under the Amended Senior Term Loans and $140 million of undrawn availability under the Amended Revolving Credit Facilities (not including an additional $35 million equivalent in multicurrencies of undrawn availability which can be drawn in either U.S. dollars or euro). Developments in the economy may adversely impact our business. Since the middle of 2007, there has been disruption and turmoil in financial markets around the world. Throughout many of our largest markets, including the U.S. and Spain, there have been dramatic declines in the housing market, high levels of unemployment and underemployment, and reduced earnings, or, in some cases, losses, for businesses across many industries, with reduced investments in growth. A recessionary economic environment may adversely affect demand for our products. Prolastin®/Prolastin®-C A1PI is sold directly to patients in the U.S. As a result of their job losses, patients may lose medical insurance and be unable to purchase needed medical products or may be unable to pay their share of deductibles or co-payments. IVIG is primarily sold to hospitals and specialty pharmacies. Hospitals adversely affected by the economy may steer patients to less costly therapies, resulting in a reduction in demand, or demand may shift to public health hospitals, which purchase our products at a lower government price. While to date we cannot directly trace any material reduction in demand to the recession, if economic conditions do not improve, the impact may become material. If the Clayton, Los Angeles, Melville or Parets facilities were to suffer a crippling accident, or if a force majeure event materially affected our ability to operate and produce saleable products, a substantial part of our manufacturing capacity could be shut down for an extended period. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from plasma fractionation and products manufactured at our Clayton, Los Angeles and Melville facilities and at our manufacturing plant located in Parets del Vallès, near Barcelona, Spain, or Parets facility. In addition, a substantial portion of our plasma supply is stored at facilities in City of Industry, California and Benson, North Carolina, as well as at our Clayton and Parets facilities. If any of these facilities were to be impacted by an accident or a force majeure event such as an earthquake, major fire or explosion, major equipment failure or power failure lasting beyond the capabilities of our backup generators, our revenues would be materially adversely affected. In this situation, our manufacturing capacity could be shut down for 20 Table of Contents an extended period and we could experience a loss of raw materials, work in process or finished goods inventory. Other force majeure events such as terrorist acts, influenza pandemic or similar events could also impede our ability to operate our business. In addition, in any such event, the reconstruction of our Clayton, Los Angeles or Parets facilities or our plasma storage facilities, the regulatory approval of the new facilities, and the replenishment of raw material plasma could be time-consuming. During this period, we would be unable to manufacture our products at other plants due to the need for FDA and foreign regulatory authority inspection and certification of such facilities and processes. At December 31, 2011, we maintained property damage and business interruption insurance with limits of $500 million for the Los Angeles facility, $1 billion for the Clayton and Melville facilities and €360 million for facilities in the rest of the world per claim. Effective January 1, 2012, we maintain property damage and business interruption insurance of $1 billion per claim for each facility. However, this insurance may still be insufficient to mitigate the losses from any such accident or force majeure event. We may also be unable to recover the value of the lost plasma or work-in-process inventories, as well as the sales opportunities from the products we would be unable to produce. If we experience equipment difficulties or if the suppliers of our equipment or disposable goods fail to deliver key product components or supplies in a timely manner, our manufacturing ability would be impaired and our product sales could suffer. We depend on a limited number of companies that supply and maintain our equipment and provide supplies such as chromatography resins, filter media, glass and stoppers used in the manufacture of our products. If our equipment should malfunction, the repair or replacement of the machinery may require substantial time and cost, which could disrupt our production and other operations. Our plasma collection centers rely on disposable goods supplied by third parties and information technology systems hosted by third parties. Our plasma collection centers cannot operate without an uninterrupted supply of these disposable goods and the operation of these systems. We have experienced periodic outages of these systems, but a material outage would affect our ability to operate our collection centers. Alternative sources for key component parts or disposable goods may not be immediately available. Any new equipment or change in supplied materials may require revalidation by us or review and approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, including the EMA, which may be time-consuming and require additional capital and other resources. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period, or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, shipments of affected products may be limited or delayed. Our inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of products may require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships and force us to curtail operations. If our shipping or distribution channels were to become inaccessible due to a crippling accident, an act of terrorism, a strike or any other force majeure event, our supply, production and distribution processes could be disrupted. Plasma must be transported at a temperature of -20 degrees Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit) to ensure the preservation of its proteins. Not all shipping or distribution channels are equipped to transport plasma at these temperatures. If any of our shipping or distribution channels becomes inaccessible due to a crippling accident, an act of terrorism, a strike or any other force majeure event, we may experience disruptions in our continued supply of plasma and other raw materials, delays in our production process or a reduction in our ability to distribute our products directly to our customers. We rely in large part on third parties for the sale, distribution and delivery of our products. In the U.S., we regularly enter into distribution, supply and fulfillment contracts with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, home care companies, alternate infusion sites, hospital groups and others. We are highly dependent on these contracts for the successful sale, distribution and delivery of our products. For example, we rely principally on GPOs and on our distributors to sell our IVIG products. If the parties with which we contract breach, terminate, or otherwise fail to perform under the agreements, our ability to effectively distribute our products will be impaired and our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, through circumstances outside of our control, such as general economic decline, market saturation or increased competition, we may be unable to successfully renegotiate our contracts or secure terms which are as favorable to us. In addition, we rely in certain countries on distributors for sales of our products. Disagreements or difficulties with our distributors supporting our export business could result in a loss of sales. We may not be able to commercialize products in development. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates or for the marketing of existing products for new indicated uses, we must conduct, at our own expense, extensive preclinical tests to demonstrate the safety of our product candidates in animals and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, is difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, 21 Table of Contents preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: • regulators or institutional review boards, or IRBs, may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial within a country or at a prospective trial site, respectively; • the regulatory requirements for product approval may not be explicit, may evolve over time and may diverge by jurisdiction; • our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or to abandon projects that we had expected to be promising; • the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may withdraw from our clinical trials at higher rates than we anticipate, any of which would result in significant delays; • our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • we may be forced to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if any participant experiences an unexpected serious adverse event; • regulators or IRBs may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • undetected or concealed fraudulent activity by a clinical researcher, if discovered, could preclude the submission of clinical data prepared by that researcher, lead to the suspension or substantive scientific review of one or more of our marketing applications by regulatory agencies, and result in the recall of any approved product distributed pursuant to data determined to be fraudulent; • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; • the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient or inadequate because we do not currently have any agreements with third-party manufacturers for the long-term commercial supply of any of our product candidates; • an audit of preclinical or clinical studies by the FDA or other regulatory authorities may reveal noncompliance with applicable regulations, which could lead to disqualification of the results and the need to perform additional studies; and • the effects of our product candidates may not achieve the desired clinical benefits or may cause undesirable side effects, or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; • be unable to obtain marketing approval; • be unable to obtain reimbursement for our products in some countries; • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended; or • have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, impairing our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. Even if preclinical trials are successful, we still may be unable to commercialize a product due to difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for its engineering process or problems in scaling that process to commercial production. Additionally, if produced, a product may not achieve an adequate level of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in 22 Table of Contents the medical community to be profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe such therapies; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that any products we may seek to develop will ever be successfully commercialized, and to the extent they are not successfully commercialized, such products could be a significant expense with no reward. A breakdown in our information technology systems could result in a significant disruption to our business. Our operations are highly dependent on our information technology systems. If we were to suffer a breakdown in our systems, storage, distribution or tracing, we could experience significant disruptions affecting our manufacturing, accounting and billing processes. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the U.S. and other countries of the intellectual property relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the U.S. and other countries for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products, especially intellectual property related to our purification processes. The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if patents are issued to us or to our licensors, they may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of time our products have patent protection. Additionally, most of our patents relate to the processes we use to produce our products, not to the products themselves. In many cases, the plasma-derived products we produce or develop in the future will not, in and of themselves, be patentable. Since our patents relate to processes, if a competitor is able to design and utilize a process that does not rely on our protected intellectual property, that competitor could sell a plasma-derived product similar to one we developed or sell. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, we are a party to a number of license agreements which may impose various obligations upon us as a licensee, including the obligation to make milestone and royalty payments. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may terminate the license, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by the licensed patents. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the U.S. and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after their filing, if at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or their issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in such patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may be required to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an “interference proceeding,” declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and our efforts in them could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our anticipated U.S. patent position. Our patents expire at various dates. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us with any competitive advantage. Even if issued, we cannot guarantee that: any of our present or future patents or patent claims or other intellectual property rights will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or abandoned; our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages; our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against potential competitors or to settle current or future disputes will not be limited by our agreements with third parties; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal protection may be weak; or we will not lose the ability to 23 Table of Contents assert our intellectual property rights against, or to license our technology to, others and collect royalties or other payments. In addition, our competitors or others may design around our protected patents or technologies. Effective protection of our intellectual property rights may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some countries. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the U.S. and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. Such lawsuits could entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. We, like other companies in the pharmaceutical industry, may become aware of counterfeit versions of our products becoming available domestically and abroad. Counterfeit products may use different and possibly contaminated sources of plasma and other raw materials, and the purification process involved in the manufacture of counterfeit products may raise additional safety concerns, over which we have no control. Any reported adverse events involving counterfeit products that purport to be our products could harm our reputation and the sale of our products in particular and consumer willingness to use plasma-derived therapeutics in general. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes and know-how. We generally seek to protect proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, may be limited as to their term and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or other third parties. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We also rely on contractual protections with our customers, suppliers, distributors, employees and consultants and implement security measures designed to protect our trade secrets. We cannot assure that these contractual protections and security measures will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our suppliers, employees or consultants will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of such contracts. Since we rely on trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements, in addition to patents, to protect some of our intellectual property, there is a risk that third parties may obtain and improperly utilize our proprietary information to our competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to detect the unauthorized use of such information or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We may infringe or be alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. Our products or product candidates may infringe or be accused of infringing one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may be subsequently issued and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. If we are found to be infringing on the patent rights of a third party, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. 24 Table of Contents Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We take steps to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us. We may, however, be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs to us or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. We have in-licensed certain patent rights. Our in-license agreements for certain patent rights may impose payment and/or other material obligations on us as a licensee. Although we are currently in compliance with all of our material obligations under these licenses, if we were to breach any such obligations, our counterparty licensors may be entitled to terminate the licenses. Such termination may restrict, delay or eliminate our ability to develop and commercialize our products, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot guarantee that the third-party patents and technology we license will not be licensed to our competitors. In the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses, renew existing license agreements or otherwise replace existing technology. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed or the technology can be replaced on acceptable terms, or at all. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur in the future. Although we have taken steps to minimize this risk, any failure to identify unauthorized use and otherwise adequately protect our intellectual property would adversely affect our business. Moreover, if we are required to commence litigation related to unauthorized use, whether as a plaintiff or defendant, such litigation would be time-consuming, force us to incur significant costs and divert our attention and the efforts of our management and other employees, which could, in turn, result in lower revenue and higher expenses. If we are unable to protect our trademarks from infringement, our business prospects may be harmed. We own trademarks that identify our products and have registered these trademarks in our key markets. Although we monitor the possible infringement or misuse of our trademarks, it is possible that third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights. Any unauthorized use of our trademarks could harm our reputation or commercial interests. In addition, our enforcement against third-party infringers may be unduly expensive or time-consuming, or the outcome may be an inadequate remedy. We are investigating potential Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations that occurred at Talecris prior to the acquisition. We are continuing an internal investigation into potential violations of the FCPA by Talecris relating to events prior to the acquisition. In July 2009, Talecris voluntarily contacted the DOJ to advise it that it was conducting an internal investigation into potential violations of the FCPA. The FCPA investigation is being conducted by outside counsel under the direction of the Board. The investigation into possible improper payments to individuals and entities made after Talecris’ formation initially focused on payments made in connection with sales in certain Eastern European and Middle Eastern countries, primarily Belarus, Russia and Iran, but we are also reviewing sales practices in Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Georgia, Libya, Poland, Turkey, Ukraine and other countries as deemed appropriate. The DOJ has not indicated what action it may take, if any, against us or any individual, or the extent to which it may conduct its own investigation. Even though Talecris self-disclosed this matter to the DOJ and we continue to cooperate with the DOJ on this matter, the DOJ or other federal agencies may seek to impose sanctions on us that may include, among other things, debarment, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties, appointment of a monitor, appointment of new control staff or enhancement of existing compliance and training programs. Other countries in which Talecris conducted business may initiate their own investigations and impose similar penalties. As a result of this investigation, shipments to some of these countries have been suspended while we put additional safeguards in place. In some cases, safeguards involved terminating consultants and suspending relations with or terminating distributors in countries under investigation as circumstances warranted. Talecris resumed sales in countries where it believed that it had appropriate safeguards in place, and we are reallocating products to other countries as necessary. We made an initial presentation of some of the findings of the internal FCPA investigation to the DOJ in July 2011, and we will continue to present our findings from the investigation to the DOJ. Given the preliminary nature of the findings, our continuing investigation and the uncertainties regarding this matter, we are unable to estimate the final outcome. Any sanctions or loss of business could have a material adverse effect on us or our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Healthcare Industry The implementation of the 2010 healthcare reform law in the U.S. may adversely affect our business. Through the March 2010 adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the companion Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act in the U.S., or, collectively, healthcare reform law, substantial changes are being made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the U.S., including programs to extend medical benefits to millions of individuals who currently lack insurance coverage. The changes contemplated by the healthcare reform law are subject to rule-making and implementation timelines that extend for several years, and this uncertainty limits our ability to forecast changes that may occur in the future. A provision in the healthcare reform law, often referred to as the “individual mandate,” which requires individuals without health insurance to pay a penalty, was recently declared unconstitutional by certain federal courts, while certain other federal courts have affirmed its constitutionality. Appeals are pending, and the United States Supreme Court will review this issue during its 2012 term. The implications of this upcoming decision are not clear. Implementation of the healthcare reform law has already begun with respect to certain significant cost-savings measures under the healthcare reform law with respect to, for example, several government healthcare programs that cover the cost of our products, including Medicaid, Medicare Parts B and D and the 340B/Public Health Service, or PHS, program, and these efforts could have a materially adverse impact on our financial performance. For example, with respect to Medicaid, in order for a drug manufacturer’s products to be reimbursed by federal funding under Medicaid, the manufacturer must enter into a Medicaid drug rebate agreement with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, and pay certain rebates to the states based on utilization data provided by each state to the manufacturer and to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, and pricing data provided by the manufacturer to the federal government. The states share this savings with the federal government and sometimes implement their own additional supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid drug rebate program, the rebate amount for most branded drugs was previously equal to a minimum of 15.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price (“AMP”), or AMP less Best Price (“AMP less BP”), whichever is greater. Effective January 1, 2010, the healthcare reform law generally increased the size of the Medicaid rebates paid by drug manufacturers for single source and innovator multiple source (brand name) drugs from a minimum of 15.1% to a minimum of 23.1% of the AMP, subject to certain exceptions; for example, for certain clotting factors, the increase was limited to a minimum of 17.1% of the AMP. For non-innovator multiple source (generic) drugs, the rebate percentage was increased from a minimum of 11.0% to a minimum of 13.0% of AMP. In 2010, the healthcare reform law also newly extended this rebate obligation to prescription drugs covered by Medicaid managed care organizations. In addition, the statutory definition of AMP changed in 2010 as a result of the healthcare reform law. In November 2010, CMS withdrew previously-issued regulations defining AMP and in February 2012 issued proposed regulations which are not yet finalized. We believe we are making reasonable assumptions regarding our reporting obligations with respect to this new definition, but, in the absence of final regulations from CMS, the adequacy of our assumptions is not certain. Once CMS issues final regulations, we may determine that our assumptions require amendment to comply with the regulatory definition of AMP. The healthcare reform law also created new rebate obligations for our products under Medicare Part D, a partial, voluntary prescription drug benefit created by the U.S. federal government primarily for persons 65 years old and over. The Part D drug program is administered through private insurers that contract with CMS. Beginning in 2011, the healthcare reform law generally required that we provide a 50% discount to patients who fall within the Medicare Part D coverage gap, also referred to as the “donut hole,” which is a gap in Medicare Part D coverage for beneficiaries who have expended certain amounts for drugs. The availability of federal funds to pay for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs requires that we extend discounts under the 340B/PHS program, and changes to this program under the healthcare reform law could adversely affect our financial performance. The 340B/PHS program extends discounts to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of certain low income individuals, and the healthcare reform law expanded the number of qualified 340B entities eligible to purchase products for outpatient use, adding certain cancer centers, children’s hospitals, critical access hospitals and rural referral centers. The PHS price, or ceiling price, cannot exceed the AMP (as reported to CMS under the Medicaid drug rebate program) less the Medicaid unit rebate amount. We have entered into a pharmaceutical pricing agreement, or PPA, with the government in which we have agreed to participate in the 340B/PHS program by charging eligible entities no more than the PHS ceiling price for drugs intended for outpatient use. The healthcare reform law imposes a “must sell” obligation on manufacturers that will require manufacturers to offer their products to eligible entities at legally mandated discount prices if such products are “made available to any other purchaser at any other price.” The healthcare reform law imposes this obligation by requiring HHS to add the requirement to the 340B/PHS program agreements that manufacturers must execute with HHS. Rulemaking to implement this obligation is not yet complete, and as a result, the full impact of the changes is not yet certain. For example, certain biological products we sell are subject to shortages on occasion, and we do not believe that this new provision would require us to provide a supply advantage to covered entities. If implementing regulations do not reflect this interpretation of the law, it could adversely affect our financial performance. 26 Table of Contents The healthcare reform law also introduced a biosimilar pathway that permits companies to obtain FDA approval of versions of existing biologics that are highly similar to innovative biologics based upon reduced documentation and data requirements deemed sufficient to demonstrate safety and efficacy than are required for the pioneer biologics. The new law provides that a biosimilar application may be submitted as soon as four years after the reference product is first licensed, and that the FDA may not make approval of an application effective until 12 years after the reference product was first licensed. Although drug manufacturers have begun efforts to develop biosimilar drugs for the U.S. market, none have yet been approved by the FDA. However, an approval pathway for biosimilar versions of our biological products now exists in the United States for the first time, and accordingly we expect in the future to face greater competition from biosimilar products, including a possible increase in patent challenges, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance. The FDA is developing regulations to implement the biosimilar pathway, and, for example, in February 2012 issued three draft guidance documents on biosimilar product development. Regarding access to our products, the healthcare reform law established and provided significant funding for a Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to coordinate and fund Comparative Effectiveness Research, as those terms are defined in the healthcare reform law. While the stated intent of Comparative Effectiveness Research is to develop information to guide providers to the most efficacious therapies, outcomes of Comparative Effectiveness Research could influence the reimbursement or coverage for therapies that are determined to be less cost-effective than others. Should any of our products be determined to be less cost-effective than alternative therapies, the levels of reimbursement for these products, or the willingness to reimburse at all, could be impacted, which could materially impact our financial results. We could be adversely affected if other government or private third-party payors decrease or otherwise limit the amount, price, scope or other eligibility requirements for reimbursement for the purchasers of our products. Prices in many countries, including many in Europe, are subject to local regulation and certain pharmaceutical products, such as plasma derivative products, are subject to price controls in several of our principal markets, including Spain and countries within the European Union. In the U.S., where pricing levels for our products are substantially established by third-party payors, if payors reduce the amount of reimbursement for a product, it may cause groups or individuals dispensing the product to discontinue administration of the product, to administer lower doses, to substitute lower cost products or to seek additional price-related concessions. These actions could have a negative effect on financial results, particularly in cases where our products command a premium price in the marketplace or where changes in reimbursement induce a shift in the site of treatment. The existence of direct and indirect price controls and pressures over our products has affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect, our ability to maintain or increase gross margins. In the U.S., for example, beginning in 2005, the Medicare drug reimbursement methodology for physician and hospital outpatient payment schedules changed to Average Sales Price, or ASP, + 6%. This payment was based on a volume-weighted average of all brands under a common billing code. Medicare payments to physicians between the fourth quarter of 2004 and the first quarter of 2005 dropped 14% for both the powder and liquid forms of IVIG. Medicare payments to hospitals fell 45% for powder IVIG and 30% for liquid IVIG between the fourth quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. The Medicare reimbursement changes resulted in the shift of a significant number of Medicare IVIG patients to hospitals from physicians’ offices beginning in 2005, as many physicians could no longer recover their costs of obtaining and administering IVIG in their offices and clinics. After 2006, some hospitals reportedly began to refuse to provide IVIG to Medicare patients due to reimbursement rates that were below their acquisition costs. Subsequent changes have improved some of these Medicare reimbursement issues, although there has been variability in the reimbursement levels for separately payable, non-pass-through drugs and biologicals in the hospital outpatient setting over the past few years, making financial performance predictions difficult. On January 1, 2008, the CMS reduced the reimbursement for these separately covered drugs and biologicals, including IVIG, in the hospital outpatient setting from ASP + 6% to ASP + 5%, using 2006 Medicare claims data as a reference for this reduction. In addition, CMS reduced a hospital add-on payment from $75 to $38 per infusion. Beginning January 1, 2009 CMS further reduced the hospital outpatient reimbursement for separately covered outpatient drugs, including IVIG, to ASP + 4%, and eliminated the add-on payment. For 2010, the rate remained as ASP + 4%, based on a cost-based methodology that also involved reallocating certain overhead costs from packaged drugs to unpackaged drugs. In 2011, relying on the 2010 methodology, CMS increased the rate to ASP + 5%. For 2012, CMS decreased the rate to ASP + 4%. Also, the intended use of a drug product by a physician can affect pricing. Physicians frequently prescribe legally available therapies for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries. These off-label uses are common across medical specialties, and physicians may believe such off-label uses constitute the preferred treatment or treatment of last resort for many patients in varied circumstances. We believe that a significant portion of our IVIG volume may be used to fill physician prescriptions for indications not approved by the FDA or similar regulatory authorities. If reimbursement for off-label uses of products, including IVIG, is reduced or eliminated by Medicare or other third-party payors, including those in the U.S. or the European Union, we could be adversely affected. For example, CMS could initiate an administrative procedure known as a National Coverage Determination, or NCD, by which the agency determines which uses of a therapeutic product would be reimbursable under Medicare and which uses would not. 27 Table of Contents This determination process can be lengthy, thereby creating a long period during which the future reimbursement for a particular product may be uncertain. High levels of spending on IVIG products, along with increases in IVIG prices, increased IVIG utilization and the high proportion of off-label uses, may increase the risk of regulation of IVIG reimbursement by CMS. On the state level, similar limits could be proposed for therapeutic products covered under Medicaid. With respect to pricing, for many payors, including private health insurers and self-insured health plans, as well as Medicare Part D plans and some state Medicaid programs, outpatient pharmaceuticals are often reimbursed based upon a discount calculated off of the Average Wholesale Price, or AWP, pricing benchmark. AWP is a list price that has been calculated and published by private third-party publishers, such as First DataBank, Thomson Reuters (Red Book) and Wolters Kluwer (Medi-Span). AWP does not reflect actual transactions in the distribution chain (e.g., the publishers do not base the figure on actual transaction prices, including any prompt pay or other discounts, rebates or price reductions). Often, publishers calculate AWP based upon a standard markup of, for example, 20% over the Wholesale Acquisition Cost, or WAC, another list price that is reported by drug manufacturers to the publishers. WAC is generally understood in the industry to be the list price drug manufacturers have for their drug wholesaler customers and, like AWP, is not calculated based on actual transaction prices, including any prompt pay or other discounts, rebates or price reductions. We do not publish AWPs for any of our products, but we report WACs for our products. We may be at a competitive disadvantage where providers are reimbursed on an AWP basis and competitors’ products are reimbursed based on a higher AWP than the corresponding AWP for our product. The use of AWP and WAC as pricing benchmarks has been subject to legal challenge by both government officials and private citizens, often based on claims that the benchmarks were used in a misleading manner, thus defrauding consumers and third-party payors. It is possible that we, as a reporter of WAC, could be challenged on this basis. Additionally, the settlement of class action litigation against First DataBank and others has resulted in the downward revision of certain reported AWP listings (to a level of 20% over WAC). Issues regarding AWP have contributed to suggestions to eliminate its use as a drug pricing benchmark. With respect to the major private publishers of AWP, First DataBank ceased publishing AWP as of September 28, 2011, while Thomson Reuters (Red Book) and Wolters Kluwer (Medi-Span) have reported that they will continue to publish AWP. Certain of our business practices are subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities, as well as to lawsuits brought by private citizens under federal and state laws. Failure to comply with applicable law or an adverse decision in lawsuits may result in adverse consequences to us. The laws governing our conduct in the U.S. are enforceable by criminal, civil and administrative penalties. Violations of laws such as the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”), the Federal False Claims Act (the “FCA”), the PHS Act or a provision of the U.S. Social Security Act known as the “Anti-Kickback Law,” or any regulations promulgated under their authority, may result in jail sentences, fines or exclusion from federal and state programs, as may be determined by Medicare, Medicaid, the Department of Defense, other regulatory authorities and the courts. There can be no assurance that our activities will not come under the scrutiny of regulators and other government authorities or that our practices will not be found to violate applicable laws, rules and regulations or prompt lawsuits by private citizen “relators” under federal or state false claims laws. For example, under the Anti-Kickback Law, and similar state laws and regulations, even common business arrangements, such as discounted terms and volume incentives for customers in a position to recommend or choose drugs and devices for patients, such as physicians and hospitals, can result in substantial legal penalties, including, among others, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs, and arrangements with referral sources must be structured with care to comply with applicable requirements. Also, certain business practices, such as payment of consulting fees to healthcare providers, sponsorship of educational or research grants, charitable donations, interactions with healthcare providers that prescribe products for uses not approved by the FDA and financial support for continuing medical education programs, must be conducted within narrowly prescribed and controlled limits to avoid any possibility of wrongfully influencing healthcare providers to prescribe or purchase particular products or as a reward for past prescribing. Significant enforcement activity has been the result of actions brought by relators, who file complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state False Claims Act statutes and can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. Also, violations of the False Claims Act can result in treble damages, and each false claim submitted can be subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 per claim. The healthcare reform law imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain U.S. healthcare practitioners, such as physicians and academic medical centers. Data collection obligations under this rule were to commence in January 2012, and reporting requirements are to be implemented in 2013. On December 14, 2011, CMS issued proposed regulations to implement these provisions, sought substantial comments and announced that data collection obligations would not begin until final regulations were issued. A number of states have similar laws in place. Additional and stricter prohibitions could be implemented by federal and state authorities. Where practices have been found to involve improper incentives to use products, government investigations and assessments of penalties against manufacturers have resulted in substantial damages and fines. Many manufacturers have been required to enter into consent decrees or orders that prescribe allowable corporate conduct. 28 Table of Contents Failure to satisfy requirements under the FDCA can also result in penalties, as well as requirements to enter into consent decrees or orders that prescribe allowable corporate conduct. In this regard, our Los Angeles facility was previously managed pursuant to a consent decree that was entered into in February 1998 based on action by the FDA and DOJ addressing FDCA violations committed by the former owner of the center, Alpha Therapeutic Corporation, or Alpha. The consent decree provided for annual inspection of the plant by the FDA. On March 15, 2012, the United States District Court for the Central District of California entered an order vacating the consent decree on the Los Angeles facility. Adverse consequences can also result from failure to comply with the requirements of the 340B/PHS program under the PHS Act, which extends discounts to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS. For example, the healthcare reform law requires the Secretary of HHS to develop and issue regulations for the 340B/PHS program establishing standards for the imposition of sanctions in the form of civil monetary penalties, or CMP, for manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge a covered entity for a 340B drug. The CMP can be up to $5,000 for each instance of overcharging a covered entity. HHS has never had CMP authority that addresses this area and has not yet issued final regulations to implement this new penalty provision, and accordingly, the impact of this CMP provision is uncertain. In September 2010, HHS’ Health Resources and Services Administration, or HRSA, issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it is considering imposing CMPs on manufacturers in certain cases where a covered entity has been unable to find a given product at a 340B price and has instead purchased the drug outside of the 340B Program at a price greater than the ceiling price. Certain of our products are subject to shortages and allocation issues can arise. Accordingly, if HRSA adopts a CMP interpretation of this kind, it could potentially have adverse consequences on our financial performance. In addition, and prior to the enactment of the healthcare reform law, some government regulators have suggested that allocation issues linked to product shortages could give rise to potential 340B/PHS program violations. In November 2009, the USAO for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania commenced an investigation of Talecris, with respect to its method of allocating its IVIG product, Gamunex®, as available for sale at the PHS price to covered entities. We have cooperated with and responded to information requests from the USAO and believe that we have complied with the terms of the PPA and federal law. In addition, while regulatory authorities generally do not regulate physicians’ discretion in their choice of treatments for their patients, they do restrict communications by manufacturers on off-label uses of approved drugs or on the potential safety and efficacy of unapproved products in development. Companies in the U.S., Canada and European Union cannot promote approved products for other indications that are not specifically approved by the competent regulatory authorities (e.g., FDA in the U.S.), nor can companies promote unapproved products. In limited circumstances, companies may disseminate to physicians information regarding unapproved uses of approved products or results of studies involving investigational products. If such activities fail to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines of the various regulatory authorities, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. Furthermore, if such activities are prohibited, it may harm demand for our products. Promotion of unapproved drugs or devices or unapproved indications for a drug or device is a violation of the FDCA and subjects us to civil and criminal sanctions. Furthermore, sanctions under the FCA have recently been brought against companies accused of promoting off-label uses of drugs, because such promotion induces the use and subsequent claims for reimbursement under Medicare and other federal programs. Similar actions for off-label promotion have been initiated by several states for Medicaid fraud. The healthcare reform law significantly strengthened provisions of the FCA, Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback provisions, and other health care fraud provisions, leading to the possibility of greatly increased qui tam suits by relators for perceived violations. Violations or allegations of violations of the foregoing restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business. We are required to report detailed pricing information, net of included discounts, rebates and other concessions, to CMS for the purpose of calculating national reimbursement levels, certain federal prices and certain federal and state rebate obligations. We have established systems for collecting and reporting this data accurately to CMS and have instituted a compliance program to assure that the information collected is complete in all respects. If we report pricing information that is not accurate to the federal government, we could be subject to fines and other sanctions that could adversely affect their business. To market and sell our products outside of the U.S., we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and comply with regulatory requirements in such jurisdictions. The approval procedures vary among countries in complexity and timing. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the U.S. on a timely basis, if at all, which would preclude us from commercializing products in those markets. In addition, some countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, regulate the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In these countries, pricing discussions with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of their product candidate to other available therapies. Such trials may be time-consuming and expensive and may not show an advantage in efficacy for our products. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, in either the U.S. or the European 29 Table of Contents Union, we could be adversely affected. Also, under the FCPA, the U.S. has increasingly focused on regulating the conduct by U.S. businesses occurring outside of the U.S., generally prohibiting remuneration to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. To enhance compliance with applicable health care laws, and mitigate potential liability in the event of noncompliance, regulatory authorities, such as HHS’s Office of Inspector General, or OIG, have recommended the adoption and implementation of a comprehensive health care compliance program that generally contains the elements of an effective compliance and ethics program described in Section 8B2.1 of the U.S. Sentencing Commission Guidelines Manual. Increasing numbers of U.S.-based pharmaceutical companies have such programs. While we have adopted U.S. healthcare compliance and ethics programs that generally incorporate the HHS OIG’s recommendations, and train our applicable U.S. employees in such compliance, having such a program can be no assurance that we will avoid any compliance issues. We are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our business involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, various biological compounds and chemicals. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident, spill or release of any regulated chemicals or substances occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, including for investigation, remediation and monitoring of the contamination, including natural resource damages, the costs of which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials and chemicals. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover the costs and expenses that may be incurred due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us for claims arising in the U.S. Additional or more stringent federal, state or local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial capital costs and operating expenses to comply with any of these laws or regulations and the terms and conditions of any permits required pursuant to such laws and regulations, including costs to install new or updated pollution control equipment, modify our operations or perform other corrective actions at our respective facilities. In addition, fines and penalties may be imposed for noncompliance with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or for the failure to have or comply with the terms and conditions of required environmental permits. Internationally, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or Kyoto Protocol, became effective in February 2005. Adopted by some of the countries in which we operate, the Kyoto Protocol requires the implementation of national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, generally referred to as greenhouse gases, which contribute to global warming. Climate change-related legislation has also passed the U.S. House of Representatives, which, if enacted by the full Congress, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from large emitters of greenhouse gasses through a “cap-and-trade” system of allowances and credits and other provisions. Moreover, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, issued a finding that the current and projected concentrations of certain greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide, threaten the public health and welfare of current and future generations. While this finding in itself does not impose any requirements on our industry, it authorizes the EPA to regulate directly greenhouse gas emissions through a rule-making process. Existing legislation and the future passage of climate control legislation or regulations that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in the areas in which we operate could result in adverse financial and operational impacts on our respective business. Plasma collection and manufacturing, and the manufacture of drugs, biologicals and devices, are heavily regulated. Our business is heavily regulated in all jurisdictions where we collect plasma or manufacture or sell our products. In particular, plasma collection activities in the U.S. are regulated by the FDA, which requires a licensing and certification process for each plasma collection center prior to opening and conducts periodic inspections of facilities and processes. Many states also regulate plasma collection, imposing similar obligations and additional inspections and audits. In addition, the marketing and sale of a pharmaceutical product such as plasma derivatives and parenteral solutions (fluid therapies) are subject to the prior registrations, listings, licenses and approvals of such products with the relevant authorities of the jurisdiction where the product is to be marketed and sold, including compliance with promotion, labeling and advertising requirements. Our Clayton, Los Angeles, Melville and Parets facilities, as well as the facility in Las Torres de Cotillas, in Murcia, Spain, or Murcia facility, must also meet strict European Union and FDA rules. Our U.S.-based manufacturing facilities must also comply with applicable state laws. U.S. centers collecting plasma for manufacture into products to be distributed in the European Union must also be approved by the competent European health authority. Collection centers and manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory authorities. Our subsidiary, PlasmaCare, Inc., was issued an FDA Warning Letter in 2007, with respect to a plasma collection facility located in Cincinnati, Ohio. The FDA Warning Letter reported certain compliance deviations from FDA standards at the facility. The conditions were corrected to 30 Table of Contents the satisfaction of the FDA. The consequences of adverse findings following inspections can be more serious, such as the temporary shutdown of such center or facility, the loss of that center’s or facility’s license because of alleged noncompliance with applicable requirements, a voluntary or mandatory recall of finished product released to the market, or the destruction of inventory. These more serious consequences are often highly public and may also prompt private products liability lawsuits, additional regulatory enforcement actions, the imposition of substantial fines or penalties by regulatory authorities, and damage to the reputation and public image of the collection or manufacturing facility. Prior to the acquisition Talecris had voluntarily recalled plasma products. In addition, plasma unit look backs and retrievals are routinely handled when new information relevant to donor or plasma suitability is received after a donation is collected. Plasma unit retrievals are also triggered if units were distributed that should have been rejected by the plasma collection center. A minority of unit retrievals are required to be reported to the FDA as Biological Product Deviation Reports, and a relatively small number are classified by the FDA as recalls. We have been and also may be in the future involved in voluntary recalls involving certain devices. In addition, the FDA conducts ongoing monitoring and surveillance of advertising and promotional matter used by manufacturers to sell and promote their products. The FDA assesses these materials for compliance with the FDCA, regulations on misbranding and other requirements, for example, assessing if information about the risks and benefits of regulated products are communicated in a truthful, accurate, science-based, non-misleading and balanced manner. In 2005, we were issued an FDA Warning Letter with respect to our product, Flebogamma® IVIG, indicating that a brochure was misleading for failing to reveal material facts regarding risks associated with the product, and therefore misbranded Flebogamma® IVIG in violation of the FDCA. In addition, Talecris received FDA Untitled Letters on three occasions prior to the acquisition, the letters requesting that Talecris change advertising materials on the basis that they were inconsistent with the package insert for the affected products. All of these matters were addressed to the satisfaction of the FDA. In particular, the manufacturing processes for our products are governed by detailed and constantly evolving federal and sometimes state regulations that set forth cGMP for drugs and devices manufactured or distributed in the U.S. We monitor compliance with these evolving procedures and regulations to help assure compliance, but failure to adhere to established procedures or regulations, or to meet a specification, could require that a product or material be rejected and destroyed, and could result in adverse regulatory actions against us. As a result of routine inspections by regulatory health authorities, we have been issued observations, for example, Form 483 FDA Inspection Observations, with regard to cGMP compliance. While these issues have been corrected, no assurances can be provided that we will avoid citation for deficiencies in the future. If serious deficiencies are noted or recur, compliance may be costly and difficult to achieve, and consequences may include the need to recall product or suspend operations until appropriate measures can be implemented. Also, certain deviations from procedures must be reported to the FDA, and even if we determine that the deviations were not material, the FDA could require us to take similar measures. Existing government regulation and its interpretation may change or the requirements of different jurisdictions may become less uniform, thereby making compliance more expensive or reducing profit margins. Changes in the regulation of our activities, such as increased regulation affecting plasma collection activity or new regulation, such as regulation of compensation paid to plasma donors or the prices charged to customers in the European Union or the U.S. or other jurisdictions in which we operate, could materially adversely affect the business. Currently, we are not subject to limits on compensation paid to plasma donors or product price controls in the U.S. market, but we cannot assure you this will remain the case. In addition, the requirements of different jurisdictions in which we operate may become less uniform, creating a greater administrative burden and generating additional costs. Any such regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 