D. Risk Factors — If we are unable to re-register or obtain the necessary license as required by the Administrative Measures Regarding Internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, in a timely manner or at all, our equity ownership structure may require significant restructuring, or we may become subject to significant penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.” Regulation of Information Security Internet content in China is also regulated and restricted by the PRC government to protect state security. The National People’s Congress has enacted a law that may subject to criminal punishment in China any person who: (i) gains improper entry into a computer or system of strategic importance; (ii) disseminates politically disruptive information; (iii) leaks state secrets; (iv) spreads false commercial information; or (v) infringes intellectual property rights. The Ministry of Public Security has promulgated measures that prohibit use of the Internet in ways that, among other things, result in a leakage of state secrets or a spread of socially destabilizing content. The Ministry of Public Security has supervision and inspection rights in this regard, and we are subject to the jurisdiction of the local security bureaus. If an ICP license holder violates these measures, the PRC government may revoke its ICP license and shut down its websites. We believe we are in compliance with these regulations. Regulation of Domain Names and Website Names PRC law requires owners of Internet domain names to register their domain names with qualified domain name registration agencies approved by MIIT and obtain registration certificates from such registration agencies. A registered domain name owner has an exclusive use right over its domain name. Unregistered domain names may not receive proper legal protections and may be misappropriated by unauthorized third parties. As of November 30, 2013, we had registered 258 domain names relating to our websites, with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers and the China Internet Network Information Center. PRC law requires entities operating commercial websites to register their website names with the State Administration of Industry and Commerce or its local offices and obtain commercial website name registration certificates. If any entity operates a commercial website without obtaining such a certificate, it may be charged a fine or imposed other penalties by SAIC or its local offices. We have registered 14 website names used in connection with our online education business with Beijing Municipal Bureau of Industry and Commerce. Regulation of Bulletin Board Services Under the Administrative Measures on Internet Information Services and the Administrative Measures on Internet Bulletin Board Services adopted by MIIT on October 8, 2000, an Internet information services provider must obtain prior approval if it wishes to provide Internet bulletin board services. On July 4, 2010, the State Council promulgated the Decision on Abrogating or Delegating the Fifth Batch of Administrative Examination and Approval Items, pursuant to which the administrative approval for providing Internet bulletin board service was abrogated. Regulation of Internet Publishing In June 2002, the State Press and Publications Administration and MIIT issued the Interim Provisions on Internet Publishing, or the Internet Publishing Regulations. The Internet Publishing Regulations require that all entities engaging in Internet publishing obtain approval from the State Press and Publications Administration before they can conduct any Internet publishing business. “Internet publishing” is broadly defined in the Internet Publishing Regulations as an act of online dissemination of works created by ICP license holders or others that such ICP license holders select, edit and process and subsequently post on the Internet or transmit to users via the Internet for browsing, reading, use or downloading by the public. These works include contents from books, newspapers, periodicals, audio-video products, electronic publications that have already been formally published or works that have been made public in other media or from the browsed and processed works relating to literature, art, nature science, social science, engineering technology and other aspects. The Internet Publishing Regulations include a requirement for Internet publishing organizations to have professional editorial personnel examine the contents being published to ensure that they comply with applicable laws. We believe we currently operate our business in a manner that complies with this regulation. 44 Table of Contents Regulation of Privacy Protection PRC law does not prohibit Internet content providers from collecting and analyzing personal information from their users. PRC law prohibits Internet content providers from disclosing to any third parties any information transmitted by users through their networks unless otherwise permitted by law. If an Internet content provider violates these regulations, it may be liable for damages caused to its users and penalties or sanctions may be imposed by PRC governmental authorities including MIIT or its local counterparts. We believe we are in compliance with these regulations. On December 28, 2012, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress promulgated the Decision to Strengthen the Protection of Internet Information, or the Information Protection Decision, to strengthen the protection of personal information on the Internet. The Information Protection Decision provides that the Internet content providers must expressly inform their users of the purpose, manner to collect and use the users’ personal information and the scope of the information to be collected and used by the provider. In addition, the Internet content providers can collect and use the user’s personal information only with the consent of users and only within the scope of such consent. On July 16, 2013, MIIT promulgated the Provisions on the Protection of Personal Information of Telecommunication and Internet Users, which defines “Personal Information” as the information that can be used individually or in combination with other information to identify the users, including but not limited to the name, birth date, ID No., address, telephone number and account number. Regulations on Protection of the Right of Dissemination through Information Networks On May 18, 2006, the State Council promulgated the Regulations on Protection of the Right of Dissemination through Information Networks, or the Dissemination Protection Regulations, which became effective on July 1, 2006 and was amended on January 30, 2013. The Dissemination Protection Regulations require that every organization or individual who disseminates a third-party’s work, performance, audio or visual recording products to the public through information networks shall obtain permission from, and pay compensation to, the copyright owner of such products, unless otherwise provided under relevant laws and regulations. The copyright owner may take technical measures to protect his or her right of dissemination through information networks and any organization or individual shall not intentionally evade, circumvent or otherwise assist others in evading such protective measures unless permissible under law. The Dissemination Protection Regulations also provide that permission from the copyright owners and compensation for the copyright-protected works is not required in the event of limited dissemination to teaching or research staff for the purpose of school teaching or scientific research only. Regulation of Online Cultural Activities The Ministry of Culture promulgated the Interim Provisions on Internet Culture, or the Internet Culture Provisions, in May 2003, which became effective on July 1, 2003 and was amended on July 1, 2004 and on February 11, 2011, respectively. The Internet Culture Provisions apply to all ICPs that engage in the production and dissemination of cultural products via the Internet. “Internet cultural activities” is defined in the Internet Culture Provisions as an act of provision of Internet cultural products and related services, which includes (i) the production, duplication, importation, and broadcasting of the Internet cultural products; (ii) the online dissemination whereby cultural products are posted on the Internet or transmitted via the Internet to end-users, such as computers, fixed-line telephones, mobile phones, television sets and games machines, for online users’ browsing, use or downloading; and (iii) the exhibition and comparison of the Internet cultural products. In addition, “Internet cultural products” is defined in the Internet Culture Provisions as cultural products produced, broadcasted and disseminated via the Internet, which mainly include internet cultural products specially produced for the Internet, such as online music entertainment, online games, online shows and plays (programs), online performances, online works of art and online cartoons; and internet cultural products produced from cultural products such as music entertainment, games, shows and plays (programs), performances, works of art, and cartoons through certain techniques and duplicate those to internet for dissemination. All entities engaging in commercial Internet cultural activities, or Internet Cultural Entities, must be approved by the governmental agency of culture at the provincial level and by MIIT. Beijing Champion holds a Permit of Internet Cultural Activities issued by Beijing Municipal Bureau of Culture that is valid through December 31, 2014. Regulation of Online and Distance Education Pursuant to the Administrative Regulations on Educational Websites and Online and Distance Education Schools issued by MOE in 2000, or the Online Education Regulation, educational websites and online education schools may provide education services in relation to higher education, elementary education, pre-school education, teacher education, occupational education, adult education and other educational services. Under the Online Education Regulations, “Educational websites” refers to education websites providing education or education-related information services to website visitors by means of a database or an online education platform connected via the Internet or an educational television station through an Internet service provider, or ISP. Under the Online Education Regulations, “Online education schools” refer to organizations providing academic education services or training services with the issuance of various certificates. 45 Table of Contents Under the Online Education Regulations, setting up educational websites and online education schools is subject to approval from relevant education authorities, depending on the specific types of education provided. Under the Online Education Regulations, any educational website and online education school shall, upon receipt of approval, indicate on its website such approval information as well as the approval date and file number. According to the Administrative License Law promulgated by the National People’s Congress on August 27, 2003 and effective as of July 1, 2004, only laws promulgated by the National People’s Congress and regulations and decisions promulgated by the State Council may establish administrative license requirements. On June 29, 2004, the State Council promulgated the Decision on Cutting Down Administrative Licenses for the Administrative Examination and Approval Items Really Necessary to be Retained, in which the administrative license for “online education schools” was retained, while the administrative license for “educational websites” was not retained. Based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Jingtian & Gongcheng, we believe that: • None of Beijing Champion, Caikaowang and Champion Wangge is required to obtain a license to operate “educational websites” from the MOE under the current PRC laws or regulations; • None of Beijing Champion, Caikaowang and Champion Wangge is required to obtain a license to operate “online education schools” because it does not offer through its website education services or training programs that directly offer government accredited academic degrees or other government accreditation certifications. However, as the Administrative Regulations on Educational Websites and Online and Distance Education Schools has not been officially abolished, MOE or its local counterparts may continue to require online education providers like us to obtain approvals to run online education websites. If so required, we cannot assure you that such approvals can be obtained by us timely or at all. Regulation on the Wholesale, Retail and Rental of Book and Audio-Video Products Under the Administrative Measures for the Publication Market, or Administrative Measures, which was jointly promulgated by the State Press and Publication Administration and the Ministry of Commerce and became effective on March 25, 2011, any enterprise or individual wishing to engage in publication distributing activities must obtain permission from the press and publication agency at relevant levels. “Publication” and “distributing” are defined, respectively, in the Administrative Measures, as “books, newspapers, periodicals, audio-video products, and electronic publications” and “general distribution, wholesale, retail, rental, exhibition and other activities.” Any enterprise or individual who engages in publication wholesale shall obtain a Publication Business License issued by the press and publication agency at the provincial level. A publications wholesale enterprise can engage in retail distribution as well. Any enterprise or individual who engages in publication rental shall file a record to the press and publication agency at the county level. Beijing Champion holds a Publication Business Permit for book wholesale issued by Beijing Press and Publication Bureau in February 2008 under which Beijing Champion is allowed to engage in the book wholesale and retail businesses. This permit is valid through December 31, 2015. Regulation on E-commerce China’s e-commerce industry is at an early stage of development and a handful of PRC laws and regulations broadly regulates all goods and services provided through the Internet. In January 2005, the State Council adopted the Several Opinions on Promotion of the Development of E-commerce, which provides the guideline for the administration of e-commerce business in the PRC. To further implement this regulation, the Ministry of Commerce adopted in March 2007 the Guiding Opinions on Online Trading (for Tentative Implementation), which defines online trading as the trade of goods or services conducted between buyers and sellers via the Internet. All online trading participants must abide by the relevant PRC laws and are prohibited from carrying out illegal activities through online trading. In May 2010, SAIC adopted the Interim Measures for the Administration of Online Commodity Trading and Relevant Service Activities, which provides that online sellers must display their business licenses or the links to their business licenses on relevant web pages and that online service platform providers are responsible for the verification of such licenses. In addition, when providing goods or services to consumers, online sellers must state in advance the name, type, quantity, quality, price, payment method and other related key information. Regulations on Private Education The principal regulations governing private education in China consist of the Education Law of the PRC, the Law for Promoting Private Education (2003) and the Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education (2004). These regulations are summarized below. 46 Table of Contents On March 18, 1995, the National People’s Congress promulgated the Education Law of the PRC, or the Education Law, which became effective on September 1, 1995. The Education Law stipulates that enterprises, social organizations and individuals are encouraged to operate schools and other types of educational organizations in accordance with the PRC laws and regulations. Meanwhile, no organization or individual may establish or operate a school or any other institution of education for profit-making purposes. However, private schools may be operated for “reasonable returns” as described in more detail below. The Law for Promoting Private Education (2003) became effective on September 1, 2003, and the Implementation Rules for the Law for Promoting Private Education (2004) became effective on April 1, 2004. Under these regulations, “private schools” are defined as schools established by social organizations or individuals using non-government funds. In addition, private schools providing certifications, pre-school education, education for self-study aid and other academic education shall be subject to approval by the education authorities, while private schools engaging in occupational qualification training and occupational skill training shall be subject to approvals from the authorities in charge of labor and social welfare. A duly approved private school will be granted a Permit for Operating a Private School, and shall be registered with the Ministry of Civil Affairs of the PRC, or MCA or its local counterparts as a privately-run, non-enterprise institution. Champion Training School holds a Permit for Operating a Private School, which is valid through March 31, 2016. Under the above regulations, private schools have the same status as public schools, though private schools are prohibited from providing military, police, political and other kinds of education which are of a special nature. In addition, the operation of private schools is highly regulated. For example, the types and amounts of fees charged by private schools offering certifications must be approved by the relevant governmental authority and be publicly disclosed, and the types and amounts of fees charged by private schools that do not offer certifications need only be filed with the relevant governmental authority and be publicly disclosed. Private education is treated as a public welfare undertaking under the regulations. Nonetheless, investors in a private school may choose to require “reasonable returns” from the annual net balance of the school after deduction of costs, donations received, government subsidies, if any, the reserved development fund and other expenses as required by the regulations. The election to establish a private school requiring reasonable returns shall be provided in the articles of association of the school. The percentage of the school’s annual net balance that can be distributed as reasonable returns shall be determined by the school’s board of directors, taking into consideration the following factors: (i) the school’s tuition and other fees, (ii) the ratio of the school’s expenses used for educational activities and improving the educational conditions to the total fees collected; and (iii) the school’s admission standards and educational quality. Information relating to the above factors shall be publicly disclosed before the school’s board determines the percentage of the school’s annual net balance that can be distributed as reasonable returns. This disclosed information and the decision to distribute reasonable returns shall also be filed with the approval authorities within 15 days from the decision made by the board. However, none of the current PRC laws and regulations provides a formula or guidelines for determining “reasonable returns.” In addition, none of the current PRC laws and regulations sets forth different requirements or restrictions on a private school’s ability to operate its education business based on such school’s status as a school that requires reasonable returns or a school that does not require reasonable returns. On July 29, 2010, the PRC central government, in the Outlines of China’s National Plan for Medium and Long Term Education Reform and Development promulgated by it, for the first time announced the policy that the government will implement a reform to divide private education entities into two categories: (i) for-profit private education entities and (ii) not-for-profit private education entities. However, this outline is still new and no further law or regulation has been promulgated to implement it yet. At the end of each fiscal year, private schools are required to allocate a certain amount to their development fund for the construction and maintenance of the school and the procurement and upgrade of educational equipment. In the case of private schools that require reasonable returns, this amount shall be no less than 25% of the annual net income or the annual increase in the net assets of the school, while in the case of private schools that do not require reasonable returns, this amount shall be no less than 25% of the annual increase in the net assets of the school, if any. Private schools that do not require reasonable returns shall be entitled to the same preferential tax treatment as public schools. The regulations require that preferential tax treatment policies applicable to private schools requiring reasonable returns to be formulated by the finance authority, taxation authority and other authorities under the State Council, but to date no such regulations have been promulgated by the relevant authorities. Regulation on Copyright and Trademark Protection China has adopted legislation governing intellectual property rights, including copyrights and trademarks. China is a signatory to the main international conventions on intellectual property rights and became a member of the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights upon its accession to the World Trade Organization in December 2001. The National People’s Congress amended the Copyright Law in 2001 to widen the scope of works and rights that are eligible for copyright protection. The amended Copyright Law extends copyright protection to Internet activities, products disseminated over the Internet and software products. In addition, there is a voluntary registration system administered by the China Copyright Protection Center. 47 Table of Contents To address the problem of copyright infringement related to the content posted or transmitted over the Internet, the National Copyright Administration and the MII jointly promulgated the Administrative Measures for Copyright Protection Related to the Internet on April 29, 2005. These measures became effective on May 30, 2005. The PRC Trademark Law, adopted in 1982 and revised in 2001, protects the proprietary rights to registered trademarks. The Trademark Office under SAIC handles trademark registrations and grants a term of ten years to registered trademarks and another ten years to trademarks as requested upon expiry of the prior term. Trademark license agreements must be filed with the Trademark Office for record. In addition, if a registered trademark is recognized as a well-known trademark in a specific case, the proprietary right of the trademark holder may be extended beyond the registered sphere of products and services of the trademark in such case. Employment Laws In accordance with the Labor Law, which became effective in January 1995, and the Labor Contract Law, which became effective in January 2008, as amended subsequently, employers must execute written labor contracts with full-time employees in order to establish an employment relationship. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is under an obligation to sign an unlimited-term labor contract with any employee who has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Further, if an employee requests or agrees to renew a fixed-term labor contract that has already been entered into twice consecutively, the resulting contract must have an unlimited term, with certain exceptions. The employer must also pay severance to an employee in nearly all instances where a labor contract, including a contract with an unlimited term, is terminated or expires. All employers must compensate their employees equal to at least the local minimum wage standards. All employers are required to establish a system for labor safety and sanitation, strictly abide by state rules and standards and provide employees with appropriate workplace safety training. In addition, the government has continued to introduce various new labor-related regulations after the Labor Contract Law. Among other things, new annual leave requirements mandate that annual leave ranging from 5 to 15 days is available to nearly all employees and further require that the employer compensate an employee for any annual leave days the employee is unable to take in the amount of three times his daily salary, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, companies operating in China are required to participate in social insurance and housing fund plans in which the employers must pay for the employees social welfare and housing fund based upon certain percentages of employees’ salaries. Regulation of Foreign Exchange The PRC government imposes restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi and on the collection and use of foreign currency by PRC entities. Under current regulations, the Renminbi is convertible for current account transactions, which include dividend distributions, interest payments, and the import and export of goods and services. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency and foreign currency into Renminbi for capital account transactions, such as direct investment, portfolio investment and loans, however, is still generally subject to the prior approval of SAFE. Under current PRC regulations, foreign-invested enterprises such as our PRC subsidiaries are required to apply to SAFE for a Foreign Exchange Registration Certificate for Foreign-Invested Enterprise. With such a certificate (which is subject to review and renewal by SAFE on an annual basis), a foreign-invested enterprise may open foreign exchange bank accounts at banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business by SAFE and may buy, sell and remit foreign exchange through such banks, subject to documentation and approval requirements. Foreign-invested enterprises are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account transactions and current account transactions. In addition, there are restrictions on the amount of foreign currency that foreign-invested enterprises may retain in such accounts. Further, SAFE promulgated a new circular (known as Circular 142) in August 2008 with respect to the administration of conversion of foreign exchange capital contributions of a foreign invested enterprise. The circular clarifies that Renminbi converted from foreign exchange capital contributions can only be used for the activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investments unless otherwise permitted. In addition, SAFE also strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of Renminbi converted from the foreign currency denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and such Renminbi may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the related foreign exchange administration rules. In addition, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, or Circular 59, which tightens the regulation over settlement of the fund which is raised from overseas offerings like our initial public offering and is transferred back to the PRC and requires that the settlement of such fund must be consistent with the description in the prospectus for the initial public offering. Furthermore, it has recently come to our attention that SAFE issued an internal guideline to its local counterparts, referred to as Circular 45, in November 2011. Circular 45 has never been formally announced by SAFE to the public or posted on SAFE’s website. Based on the version made publicly available by certain local governmental authorities on their websites, we understand that Circular 45 requires SAFE’s local counterparts to strengthen the control imposed by Circulars 142 and 59 over the conversion of a foreign-invested company’s capital contributed in foreign currency into RMB. Circular 45 stipulates that a foreign-invested company’s RMB funds, if converted from such company’s capital contributed in foreign currency, may not be used by such company to (i) extend loans (in the form of entrusted loans), (ii) repay borrowings between enterprises, or (iii) repay bank loans it has obtained and on-lent to third parties. 48 Table of Contents Regulation of Foreign Exchange in Certain Onshore and Offshore Transactions In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Circular 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. According to SAFE Circular 75, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore enterprise for the purpose of financing that offshore enterprise with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in the PRC, each PRC resident, whether a natural or legal person, must complete certain overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch. An amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed by any PRC resident that directly or indirectly holds interests in that offshore enterprise upon either (i) the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore enterprise or (ii) any overseas fund-raising by such offshore enterprise after such injection. An amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is also required to be filed by such PRC resident when there is any material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore enterprise, such as (i) an increase or decrease in its capital, (ii) a transfer or swap of shares, (iii) a merger or division, (iv) a long-term equity or debt investment or (v) the creation of any security interests. SAFE Circular 75 applies retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who established or acquired control of offshore companies that made onshore investments in the PRC in the past were required to complete the relevant overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures by March 31, 2006. Under SAFE Circular 75, failure to comply with the registration procedures may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore entity, including restrictions on the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under the PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. As a Cayman Islands company, we are considered a foreign entity in China. If we purchase the assets or equity interests of a PRC company owned by PRC residents in exchange for our equity interests, such PRC residents will be subject to the registration procedures described in SAFE Circular 75. Moreover, PRC residents who are beneficial holders of our shares are required to register with SAFE in connection with their investment in us. Regulation of Overseas Listings On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009, or the M&A Rule. This M&A Rule, among other things, has certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Jingtian & Gongcheng, that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of SPVs like us, CSRC’s approval was not required for our initial public offering given the fact that our current corporate structure was established before the M&A Rule became effective. There remains some uncertainty as to how the M&A Rule will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADS. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China — If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval was required in connection with our initial public offering, we may become subject to penalties.” Regulation of Security Review On February 3, 2011, the General Office of the State Council issued the Circular of the General Office of the State Council on the Establishment of Security Review System for Foreign Investors’ Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises (the “Circular on the Establishment of Security Review”), which became effective on March 4, 2011. Among other things, the Circular on the Establishment of Security Review stipulates that the scope of the security review lies in foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic military enterprises, military-related enterprises, enterprises involving sensitive military facilities and other enterprises that impact national defense security; foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic enterprises which may provide foreign investors with de facto control over industries relating to national security, such as important agricultural products, energy and natural resources, infrastructures, transportation services, technologies and major equipment manufacturing. On August 25, 2011, the Ministry of Commerce issued the Circular of the Ministry of Commerce on the Implementation of Security Review System for Foreign Investors’ Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises (the “Circular on the Implementation of Security Review”), which became effective on September 1, 2011. Among other things, the Circular on the Implementation of Security Review further specifies that whether a foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic enterprises falls within the scope of the security review depends on the said transaction’s substantive content and practical influence. Foreign investors shall not circumvent the security review through any arrangements or schemes, including but not limited to trust, lease and/or contractual arrangements. 49 Table of Contents According to our PRC counsel, as our contractual arrangements were established in 2003, the new security review system shall not apply to our contractual arrangements. We cannot guarantee, however, that the Ministry of Commerce will not promulgate additional implementing rules or new rules that will bring our contractual arrangements under the scope of the security review system. Moreover, according to a press conference held by the Ministry of Commerce on September 20, 2011, there are no specific laws or regulations governing contractual arrangements like the ones that we employ, but the Ministry of Commerce together with other authorities would study how to regulate them in the future. Hence, we cannot assure you that our contractual arrangements will not be subject to new regulations that will be issued by relevant regulatory authorities and that such new regulations will not cause any material adverse effect on our existing structure. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry — Our contractual arrangements may be subjected to severe censorship under PRC laws and regulations and, thus, be challenged by relevant regulatory authorities.” SAFE Regulations on Employee Share Options On February 15, 2012, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rules. According to the Stock Option Rules, PRC residents who participate in an employee share incentive plan of an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. These participates should retain a PRC agent, which can be a branch or representative office of the overseas listed company in China, a Chinese institution which has controlling relationship or actual control relationship with the offshore listed company, or a Chinese institution qualified for asset custody business, to handle various foreign exchange matters associated with their employee share incentive plan. The PRC agent should file on behalf of the PRC resident an application with SAFE to register such employee share incentive plan, apply annually for a quota for the payment of foreign currencies in connection with the exercise of the employee share options by the PRC resident and open a special foreign exchange account at a PRC domestic bank to hold the funds required in connection with the share incentive plan. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the employee share incentive plan, PRC agent or overseas entrusted institution. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued a few circulars concerning employee share options. Under these circulars, our employees working in China who exercise share options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents relating to employee share options with relevant tax authorities and withhold individual income taxes of those employees who exercise their share options. If our employees fail to pay and we fail to withhold their income taxes, we may face sanctions imposed by tax authorities or other PRC government authorities. C. Organizational Structure Due to PRC legal restrictions on foreign ownership and investment in the Internet content distribution industry in China, we operate our online education business through Beijing Champion, a domestic Chinese company owned by Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin, both of whom are PRC citizens. We have entered into a series of contractual arrangements with Beijing Champion and its shareholders as disclosed below. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we have the power to direct the activities of, and have the right to receive benefits from, Beijing Champion, and accordingly, under U.S. GAAP, we consolidate Beijing Champion’s operating results in our consolidated financial statements. For risks associated with these contractual arrangements, see “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry.” 50 Table of Contents The following diagram illustrates our corporate and share ownership structure as of the date of this annual report. The following is a summary of the material provisions of these agreements. For more complete information you should read these agreements in their entirety. Directions on how to obtain copies of these agreements are provided in this annual report under “Item 10.H. Additional Information — Documents on Display.” Agreements that transfer economic benefits of the controlled affiliates and their subsidiaries to us Technical Support and Consultancy Services Agreement, dated May 1, 2004. Under this agreement, Champion Technology provides Beijing Champion with exclusive technical support and consultancy services relating to Beijing Champion’s online education business. The services rendered by Champion Technology mainly include assisting in course creation and production, undertaking pre-paid study card production, advising on website design and maintenance, providing general technology support and technical personnel training, assisting in strategic planning and business development and establishing and implementing a customer service system. In return, Beijing Champion pays Champion Technology a monthly service fee approved by Champion Technology. In addition, Beijing Champion undertook not to approve its annual budget, or engage in any transactions that could materially affect Beijing Champion’s capital structure, assets, liabilities, rights or operations, without the prior written consent of Champion Technology. Champion Technology undertook to provide financial support at Beijing Champion’s request in a manner permitted by law. This agreement will remain effective until Beijing Champion ceases its operations. Equity Pledge Agreements entered into on May 1, 2004 and amended and restated on December 31, 2008. To secure the payment obligations of Beijing Champion under the technical support and consultancy services agreement described above, each of Beijing Champion’s shareholders, Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin, pledged to Champion Technology his or her entire equity ownership interests in Beijing Champion pursuant to an Equity Pledge Agreement entered into on May 1, 2004, or the May 2004 Equity Pledge Agreement. In May 2008, Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin contributed an additional RMB16.8 million ($2.5 million) to Beijing Champion as increased registered capital. In connection with such capital contribution to Beijing Champion, each of Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin amended and restated his or her May 2004 Equity Pledge Agreement on December 31, 2008, or the Amended and Restated Equity Pledge Agreement. The pledge created under each of the Amended and Restated Equity Pledge Agreements could only become effective after such pledge is registered with SAIC or its local office. We successfully registered the pledge created under each of the Amended and Restated Equity Pledge Agreements with the Beijing office of SAIC on January 12, 2009. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default specified in the Amended and Restated Equity Pledge Agreements, the pledgee may exercise its rights and foreclose on the pledged equity interest. Under such agreements, the pledgor may not transfer the pledged equity interests without the pledgee’s prior written consent. The agreements will also be binding upon successors of the pledgors and transferees of the pledged equity interests. These agreements will remain effective until the discharge of Beijing Champion’s contractual obligations under the technical support and consultancy services agreement as described above. 51 Table of Contents Letter of Undertaking from Beijing Champion’s Shareholders to Champion Technology, dated February 13, 2008. Pursuant to this letter addressed to Champion Technology, the shareholders of Beijing Champion undertook to, unless restricted by laws, regulations or legal procedures, (i) remit all dividends, interests, other distributions or remnant assets after liquidation, if any, they receive from Beijing Champion to Champion Technology without compensation, after paying the corresponding tax and any other required expenses, (ii) transfer all or part of their equity interests in Beijing Champion to CDEL Hong Kong at a nominal or minimal purchase price, in the event CDEL Hong Kong exercises its exclusive purchase right to acquire any or all of the equity interests in Beijing Champion, (iii) remit to Champion Technology all considerations they may receive from CDEL Hong Kong’s acquisition of any equity interests in Beijing Champion, without compensation, after paying the corresponding tax and any other required expenses and (iv) act in the best interest of Champion Technology. Declaration Letters, dated March 24, 2008. Pursuant to these letters, the shareholders of Beijing Champion acknowledged that the distribution of dividends in March 2005 in the amount of $0.7 million was a one-time distribution of all dividends accrued prior to the execution of the technical support and consultancy services agreement described above. After the aforesaid one-time dividend distribution, the shareholders of Beijing Champion undertook that they will, unless restricted by law, remit all dividends they may receive from Beijing Champion to Champion Technology after paying applicable tax and other required expenses. Software License Agreement, dated May 20, 2007. Pursuant to this agreement, Champion Education Technology granted Beijing Champion a non-exclusive license to use the online course delivery platform for the duration of its operating period. In return, Beijing Champion pays Champion Education Technology a license fee calculated based on the revenues generated from the use of the platform. Courseware Production Entrustment Agreement, dated May 20, 2007. Pursuant to this agreement, Champion Education Technology provides Beijing Champion with services of editing, production, compilation, updating and maintenance of courseware. As consideration, Beijing Champion pays Champion Education Technology a fee calculated based on an hourly rate. Agreements that provide us with effective control over the controlled affiliates and their subsidiaries Exclusive Purchase Rights Agreement, dated May 9, 2004. Pursuant to the exclusive purchase rights agreement entered into among CDEL Hong Kong, Beijing Champion and its shareholders, CDEL Hong Kong or any third-party designated by it has the right to acquire, in whole or in part, the respective equity interests in Beijing Champion of its shareholders when permitted by applicable PRC laws and regulations. The term of this agreement is ten years from the date thereof and can be extended for another ten years at the discretion of CDEL Hong Kong. We plan to renew this agreement before its expiration on May 9, 2014. Powers of Attorney, dated March 25, 2008. Pursuant to these powers of attorney, each shareholder of Beijing Champion authorized Champion Technology or any person it designates to (i) exercise all voting powers that such shareholder enjoys under the laws and the articles of association of Beijing Champion, including the sale, transfer or pledge, in whole or in part, of such shareholder’s equity interests in Beijing Champion; (ii) nominate and appoint, on behalf of such shareholder, the legal representative, directors, supervisors, general manager, and other senior management of Beijing Champion; (iii) execute the share transfer agreement as contemplated by the exclusive purchase rights agreement described above, and perform the equity pledge agreement and the exclusive purchase rights agreement described above; and (iv) authorize any third party to carry out any of the above actions. In addition, the shareholders undertook to refrain from exercising any of the abovementioned rights. Notice to Beijing Champion and its Shareholders, dated March 25, 2008. Pursuant to this notice, Champion Technology authorized Mr. Zhengdong Zhu to exercise all rights and powers granted by the powers of attorney described above. Acknowledgement Letter to Champion Technology, dated March 25, 2008. Pursuant to this acknowledgement letter, the shareholders of Beijing Champion acknowledged that their contribution of RMB3.2 million ($0.5 million) to the registered capital of Beijing Champion prior to May 1, 2004 is subject to the equity pledge agreements described above. Acknowledgement Letter to CDEL Cayman, dated March 25, 2008. Pursuant to this acknowledgement letter, the shareholders of Beijing Champion acknowledged their contribution of $0.5 million (equivalent to RMB3.2 million) to CDEL Hong Kong in May 2004 is subject to the equity pledge agreements described above. 52 Table of Contents Tri-party Agreements re VIE Structure, dated January 30, 2013. To secure the performance of the obligations under the powers of attorney and the letters of undertaking described above, Champion Technology, Mr. Zhu, Ms. Yin and Beijing Champion entered into the tri-party agreements re VIE structure, pursuant to which Champion Technology has the right to request Mr. Zhu or Ms. Yin to unconditionally transfer his or her entire equity interests in Beijing Champion to Champion Technology or its designated third party within a certain period of time required by Champion Technology if Mr. Zhu or Ms. Yin breaches any provision of the power of attorney or the letter of undertaking. In addition, Champion Technology may also request Mr. Zhu or Ms. Yin to provide sufficient security to the satisfaction of Champion Technology and enter into a security agreement proposed by Champion Technology within a certain period of time required by Champion Technology if Champion Technology determines in its discretion that Mr. Zhu or Ms. Yin violates any provision of the powers of attorney or the letters of undertaking. If Mr. Zhu or Ms. Yin breaches this agreement, he or she shall compensate Champion Technology for any and all economic losses directly or indirectly arising from his or her breach of this agreement, the powers of attorney and the letters of undertaking. Spousal Consent Letters, dated January 30, 2013. The spouse of each shareholder of Beijing Champion (i.e. Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin) has entered into a spousal consent letter to acknowledge that he or she consents to the disposition of the equity interests held by his or her spouse in Beijing Champion in accordance with the exclusive purchase rights agreement, the letter of undertaking, the power of attorney, the equity pledge agreement and the tri-party agreements re VIE structure described above, and any other supplemental agreement(s) may be consented by his or her spouse from time to time. Each such spouse further agrees that he or she will not take any action or raise any claim to interfere with the arrangements contemplated under the above mentioned agreements. In addition, each such spouse further acknowledges that any right or interest in the equity interests held by his or her spouse in Beijing Champion do not constitute property jointly owned with his or her spouse and each such spouse unconditionally and irrevocably waives any right or interest in such equity interests. Deed of Undertaking from Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin to our Company, dated September 26, 2013. Pursuant to this letter, Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin have irrevocably covenanted and undertaken to our company that: • as long as the shares in our company that Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin together own, whether legally or beneficially, and directly or indirectly, represent more than 50% of the aggregate voting power of the then total issued and outstanding shares of our company, • Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin shall not and will not, directly or indirectly, (i) requisition or call any meeting of our company’s shareholders for the purpose of removing or replacing any of the directors of our company or appointing any new director of our company, or (ii) propose any resolution at any meeting of our company’s shareholders to remove or replace any of the directors of our company or appoint any new director of our company; and • should any meeting of our company’s shareholders be called by the board of directors for the purpose of appointing any new director to fill in the vacancy of the board, or if any resolution is proposed at any meeting of our company’s shareholders to appoint any new director to fill in the vacancy of the board, Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin shall not and will not, in their capacity as shareholders of the Company, exercise their voting rights attaching to their shares collectively in excess of (i) the total aggregate voting power of the then total issued and outstanding shares of our company held by all members of our company, other than those shares that are beneficially owned by Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin, less (ii) one vote. • should any meeting of our company’s shareholders be called by the board of directors for the purpose of removing any of the directors, appointing any person to be a director as an addition to the existing board of directors, or change the size of the board of directors, or if any resolution is proposed at any meeting of our company’s shareholders to remove any of the directors, appoint any person to be a director as an addition to the existing board of directors, or change the size of the board of directors, Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin shall not and will not, in their capacity as shareholders of our company, exercise their voting rights attaching to their shares collectively in excess of half of the total aggregate voting power of the then total issued and outstanding shares of the Company held by all members of the Company other than shares that are beneficially owned by Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin. • Neither Mr. Zhengdong Zhu nor Ms. Baohong Yin shall and will cast any votes he/she has as a director or shareholder (if applicable) on any resolutions or matters concerning enforcing, amending or otherwise relating to this deed of undertaking being considered or voted upon by the board of directors or the shareholders, as the case may be. Other agreements among our subsidiaries and the controlled affiliates Courseware License Agreement, dated August 1, 2004. Pursuant to this agreement, Beijing Champion granted Champion Technology an exclusive license to use specific distance education and training courseware owned by Beijing Champion free of charge. Under this agreement, Champion Technology is granted the rights to use the courseware for the duration of its operating period. 53 Table of Contents Letter of Undertaking from Champion Technology to Beijing Champion, dated February 13, 2008. Pursuant to this letter, Champion Technology confirmed its obligation to provide financial support to Beijing Champion if Beijing Champion suffers any financial loss. D. Property, Plants and Equipment Our principal executive offices are located in approximately 2,495 square meters of office space on the 18th floor, Xueyuan International Tower, No. 1 Zhichun Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100083, China. We also own approximately 355 square meters of office space in Hangzhou, China. We also lease approximately 3,650 square meters of office space at the Xueyuan International Tower and 6,600 square meters of office and staff quarter space at various locations of China, Hong Kong and United States. We believe that our existing facilities are adequate for our current requirements and that additional space can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms to meet our future requirements. ITEM 4A. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 5. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and their related notes included in this annual report on Form 20-F. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “Introduction — Forward Looking Statements.” In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the information provided under “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors.” We caution you that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. A. Operating Results Overview We believe that we are the largest provider of online education in China primarily focusing on professional education, as measured by total number of course enrollments in 2013. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, we had course enrollments of over 2.7 million. As of September 30, 2013, our content library encompassed 231 course offerings, approximately 4,500 classes, and close to 22,000 hours of audio-video content. We believe our course participants are attracted to us by our high quality lecture courses, our proprietary online Learning Management System, and our comprehensive tutoring support and other course-related services that result in better performance for our test preparation courses, with such performance being measured by higher than national average exam passage rates. We also aim to retain course participants as our lifelong customers with additional courses designed to further advance their careers by helping them pass higher-level professional license exams, satisfy annual continuing education requirements and enhance their practical job skills. We focus our online professional education services in three main industries: accounting, healthcare and construction engineering. In addition, we also offer other professional education courses, such as the one for the national judicial examination, online test-preparation courses for self-taught learners pursuing higher education diplomas or degrees, test preparation courses for university students intending to take the nationwide graduate school entrance exam, and online language courses. We have started to offer third-party developed online courses through our Online Open Learning Platform, a proprietary education platform that allows people to share their educational content or deliver live courses online. As of September 30, 2013, we operated 17 websites, including our main website www.cdeledu.com and 16 other websites, each dedicated to a specific industry, profession or disciplines. Our online education courses accounted for 74.1%, 77.3% and 82.1% of our net revenues in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. In addition to our online education courses, we also sell books and reference materials, offer offline business start-up training courses and offline accounting and healthcare professional training, and provide courseware production services and platform production services for certain customers. 54 Table of Contents To comply with PRC law, we have adopted a corporate structure whereby we operate our business through a series of contractual arrangements with Beijing Champion, a PRC entity owned by Mr. Zhengdong Zhu, our co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and his wife, Ms. Baohong Yin, our co-founder and deputy chairman. As a result, we do not enjoy direct equity ownership of Beijing Champion, our primary consolidated operating company. However, through these contractual arrangements, we effectively control Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries and, therefore, consolidate its financial results in our consolidated financial statements, and thus references to “we,” “us,” “our company” and “our” refer not only to China Distance Education Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries, but also to Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries as the context requires. For a more detailed discussion of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company — Organizational Structure,” and for a detailed description of the regulatory environment for Internet-based businesses in China that necessitates our adoption of this structure, see “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulations.” In addition, for a detailed description of the risks associated with our corporate structure and these contractual arrangements that support our corporate structure, see “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry.” Our net revenues were $41.6 million, $52.1 million and $71.4 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We had net income of $8.2 million and $13.6 million in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2013, respectively, compared to a net loss of $3.8 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. Our total course enrollments from continuing operations were 1,601,000, 2,203,000 and 2,700,000 for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. General Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations We have benefited significantly from overall economic growth and the expansion of the education market in China. Economic growth and increasing domestic consumption in China have contributed to a significant increase in spending on education. Furthermore, growth in China’s professional services sector is driving demand for qualified talent in China, particularly in the areas of accounting, healthcare, construction engineering, law and financial services. We have also benefited from increasing Internet and broadband penetration rates in China, which have increased the accessibility of online education and training courses as an effective and convenient way for people to meet their educational and career development needs. Our results of operations may be affected by changes to the professional requirements applicable to the various fields covered by our online courses. They may also be affected by changes in the timing, content and difficulty, or perceived difficulty, of exams covered by our courses, changes in continuing education requirements, and changes in the government subsidy policy applicable to our business start-up training courses. Exams covered by our courses may also, from time to time, be discontinued or postponed for reasons beyond our control, which may impact our revenues in certain periods. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Business — Our business could be adversely affected by changes in the perceived difficulty, requirements or formats of professional examinations and continuing education in China,’ “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Business — Our business could be adversely affected by changes in the perceived difficulty, requirements or formats of business start-up training courses, or changes in the government authorities’ subsidy policy” and “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Business — Our financial performance and prospects could be affected by natural calamities or health epidemics.” We have experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonality in revenues primarily due to seasonal changes in course enrollments and the timing of various exams, which are typically offered annually. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Business — Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility in and adversely affect the price of our ADSs.” Specific Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations Our results of operations in any given period are also directly affected by company-specific factors, including: • Number of enrollments in our courses. Our ability to generate and grow our net revenues is primarily affected by our ability to increase the number of course enrollments. This in turn is driven by several factors, including government and industry requirements for education and training in various professions, changes in exam schedules, recognition of our brand and services, Internet and broadband penetration rate, and the perceived effectiveness of our education courses. Government regulations requiring increased number of licensure and certification exams provide us with new market opportunities to develop new courses and to attract potential exam participants as our customers. Changes in exam content and knowledge requirements in certain industries and professions, and the increased difficulty, or perceived difficulty of certain exams covered by our courses, may also contribute to growth in our course enrollments as more exam takers may feel a stronger need to take exam preparation courses. Government policies encouraging business start-up training provide us with new market opportunities to develop new courses and to attract potential course participants to take our courses. 55 Table of Contents We may also, from time to time, experience a decrease in course enrollments in certain disciplines if there is a perception within those industries or professions that certain exams have become less difficult, or the content more routine and familiar, and as a result these exam takers may be less inclined to spend additional money on test preparation courses. Finally, any government decisions to scale back, postpone or cancel certain exams, combine exams or adopt measures that might reduce the number of exam participants may adversely impact our revenues. • Fees for our courses. Our net revenues are also affected by the amount of fees we charge for our courses, which depends on the overall demand, the prices and availability of competing courses, perception of the quality and effectiveness of our courses and the income levels that our course participants expect to achieve upon passing the related licensure and certification exams. We may also experience pricing pressure as we expand our course offerings into new areas, or new segments and exams within existing areas that we cover, in an effort to attract new course participants. Additionally, our net revenues are affected by the percentage of discounts we provide to regional sales agents as our revenue from this source is recorded net of discount. In addition, net revenues generated from our business start-up training course are dependent on our ability to meet government stipulated conditions under their subsidy policies. Such stipulated conditions include the passage rate of our course participants’ business proposals as evaluated by the relevant government authorities, the business start-up rate and the employment rate of our business start-up course participants. • Our ability to expand the range of courses and other services. Our ability to address market needs by expanding the range of our course offerings and other services has a direct impact on our ability to maintain growth in our course enrollments. Diversifying our sources of revenues also helps protect us from potential reduced student enrollment due to down-turns in certain industries or professions. To date, our accounting courses remain the largest and most important of all our course offerings in terms of revenue and number of course enrollments. Although we expect this to continue due to the importance of professional requirements in the accounting industry, we will continue to expand our course offerings in other areas to diversify and further grow our revenues. Over the past several years, we have developed our healthcare, construction engineering and legal course offerings and further enhanced the reputation of our business start-up training courses. However, with respect to our offline Information Technology Application Training program supplementary services, it has not generated reasonable returns in the past few years and, as a result, we ceased to operate such business in July 2013. • Impact of business acquisitions. Our ability to successfully identify, execute, integrate and manage new alliances and acquisitions can have a significant effect on our results of operations. We have pursued and may continue to pursue strategic alliance and acquisition opportunities to increase our service offerings and expand our growth; however, acquisitions may not generate the financial results we expect and may even result in losses. In March 2009, we acquired our business start-up training business and in September 2009, we acquired our Gaokao retake preparation and high-school supplementary tutoring business, both from third parties. In September 2011, we eventually discontinued the Gaokao business due to its poor financial performance. See “— Results of Operations —Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2012 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2011 — Income (Loss) from discontinued operations.” Description of Key Line Items Net Revenues We derive net revenues from the sale of online education services, books and reference materials, and other related products and services. Our net revenues are presented net of PRC business tax and related surcharges, as well as value-added taxes. The following table sets forth a breakdown of our total net revenues for the periods indicated: Year Ended September 30, 2011 2012 2013 $ % of netrevenues $ % of netrevenues $ % of netrevenues (In thousands, except for percentages) Net Revenues Online education services 30,788 74.1 % 40,281 77.3 % 58,573 82.1 % Books and reference materials 4,743 11.4 % 4,438 8.5 % 5,129 7.2 % Others 6,033 14.5 % 7,383 14.2 % 7,658 10.7 % Total net revenues 41,564 100.0 % 52,102 100.0 % 71,360 100.0 % 56 Table of Contents Online Education Services We derive most of our revenues from the provision of online education services. Our online education services consist of online professional education and test preparation courses, test preparation courses for self-taught learners pursuing higher education degrees and test preparation courses for high school and college students preparing for various academic and college entrance exams, continuing education and professionals development courses, and language courses. Our professional training courses cover a wide range of industries, including accounting, healthcare, construction engineering and others. Our online courses are available in the following course formats : the regular class, the premium class and the elite class. • Our regular class provides participants basic services such as audio-video course content and tutoring services. • With our elite classes, course participants pay substantially higher course fees for more personalized and tailored course-related services. After completing an elite class, if a participant fails to pass the relevant exam and certain pre-agreed conditions are met, the course participant may elect to either receive a cash refund of the course fees paid or full credit towards future courses provided by us. • With our premium classes, course participants enjoy high-quality premium course-related support services similar to the elite class participants. However, premium course participants do not enjoy refund privileges. Instead, in general, if a participant fails to pass the course examination and certain pre-agreed conditions are met, the course participant may retake the same premium course and pay only 50% of the course fees. To enroll in our courses, course participants may choose to purchase pre-paid study cards from our distributors or to pay us through online or mobile payment using credit or debit cards via third-party payment networks, bank remittance, postage, or by cash at our offices. Books and Reference Materials We primarily sell our own proprietary learning materials relating to accounting professional courses and exams through third-party bookstores and distributors across China and directly through our online bookstore and our offices in Beijing. The sale of books and reference materials on topics related to our course subject matter complements our online course offerings, supplements the learning experience of our course participants, helps build brand recognition and loyalty among our course participants, and promotes our expertise and reputation in various professional fields. To promote our online courses, we also sell some of our books and reference materials together with complementary study cards which allow course participants to take certain number of online courses for no additional charge. Others We derive other net revenues mainly from the provision of offline training courses, courseware production services, platform production services, and consulting services. Cost of Sales Our cost of sales consists of cost of services and cost of tangible goods sold. The following table shows our cost of sales, gross profit and gross margin for the periods indicated. For the Year Ended September 30, 2011 2012 2013 $ % of netrevenues $ % of netrevenues $ % of netrevenues (In thousands of $, except for percentages) Net Revenues 41,564 100.0 % 52,102 100.0 % 71,360 100.0 % Cost of sales: Cost of services (16,840 ) (40.5 )% (20,494 ) (39.3 )% (27,073 ) (37.9 )% Cost of tangible goods sold (2,794 ) (6.7 )% (2,587 ) (5.0 )% (2,844 ) (4.0 )% Total cost of sales (19,634 ) (47.2 )% (23,081 ) (44.3 )% (29,917 ) (41.9 )% Gross profit and gross margin 1 21,930 52.8 % 29,021 55.7 % 41,443 58.1 % 1 Gross profit is equal to net revenues less cost of sales. Gross margin is equal to gross profit divided by net revenues. 57 Table of Contents Cost of Services Cost of services accounted for 40.5%, 39.3% and 37.9% of our net revenues in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Cost of services are mainly composed of salaries and related expenses for our tutors, course and content development, and information technology technicians and other employees, fees paid to our course lecturers, depreciation and amortization expenses, server management and bandwidth leasing fees paid to third-party providers, rental and related expenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Fees paid to lecturers comprised a significant portion of our cost of services because we allocate significant resources to hiring high-quality lecturers. The number of lecturers actively producing online courses for us was 325, 376 and 385 in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Leveraging the online medium, we are able to achieve greater economies of scale than traditional offline programs that are limited by fixed teacher-student ratios as we are able to increase the number of course participants without having to increase the number of our lecturers. For example, our fees paid to lecturers as a percentage of our net revenues decreased in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, as compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012. However, our fees paid to lecturers as a percentage of our net revenues increased in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, as compared to the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 as we recorded more lecture hours and raised hourly lecturer fees to adapt to our high-definition course format, and as we expanded offline accounting and healthcare professional training course offerings. Our tutors, course and content development, and information technology technicians and other employees also play a critical role in our course development and delivery. We maintain a large, well-trained pool of tutors to answer questions from course participants by telephone or by email, usually within a 24-hour time period. Our tutors numbered 192 (including 68 part-time tutors), 193 (including 35 part-time tutors) and 323 (including 111 part-time tutors) as of September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We also allocate sizable resources to retain course production technicians capable of creating high quality high-definition audio-video course materials and other interactive features for our online courses. The number of our course production technicians were 85, 74 and 60 as of September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We also have a sizable pool of information technology technicians capable of developing a reliable, scalable and secure online platform and technology infrastructure to support our services. The number of our information technology technicians were 57, 45 and 64 as of September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. To date, salaries and related expenses constitute a large portion of our cost of services. Cost of Tangible Goods Sold Book sale costs primarily comprise printing fees for our proprietary books and reference materials and royalties paid to contributing authors. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of selling expenses, general and administrative expenses, and impairment of purchased call option. Selling Expenses Selling expenses accounted for 23.5%, 21.8% and 22.0% of our net revenues in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our selling expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses of our customer service staff and sales and marketing staff, commissions paid to our agents, advertising and promotion expenses, rental and related expenses, freight and delivery expenses related to our books and reference and promotional materials, and other selling expenses. The salaries of our customer service staff was significant as we increased the number of our customer service staff in line with greater number of course participants and other customers, and as we increased the number of our customer service staff to generate sales through our direct sales efforts. The salaries of our sales and marketing staff was also significant as we maintained the number of our sales and marketing staff at a high level to promote our business. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses accounted for 29.4%, 15.8% and 13.7% of our net revenues in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of administrative staff compensation and benefits, professional fees, depreciation and amortization, rental and related expenses, share-based compensation expenses and other miscellaneous expenses. Staff benefits include pension, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, work-related injury insurance and housing subsidies. Other miscellaneous expenses include travel, office, communication and entertainment expenses. 58 Table of Contents Taxation We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands. Under the current law of the Cayman Islands, we are not subject to income or capital gains tax. In addition, dividend payments are not subject to withholding tax in the Cayman Islands. However, there is a risk that we may be treated as resident in the PRC for tax purposes. See “Risk Factors — General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China — Under China’s EIT Law, we may be classified as a ‘resident enterprise’ of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders.” CDEL Hong Kong is incorporated in Hong Kong and provides online education and educational consulting services. No provision for Hong Kong profits tax has been made as CDEL Hong Kong has no assessable profits in Hong Kong in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013. In addition, no Hong Kong withholding tax will be imposed on any payments of dividends distributed by CDEL Hong Kong to us. PENCIL is incorporated in Hong Kong as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CDEL Hong Kong. PENCIL has not conducted any substantive operations since its inception. No provision for Hong Kong profits tax has been made as PENCIL has no assessable profits in Hong Kong in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013. In addition, no Hong Kong withholding tax will be imposed on any payments of dividends distributed by PENCIL to us through CDEL Hong Kong. DL Education is incorporated in the United States as our wholly owned subsidiary. No provision for tax has been made as DL Education has no assessable profits in the United States in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2013. Enterprise Income Tax The current and deferred components of the income tax expense/(benefit) appearing in our consolidated statements of operations are as follows: Years ended September 30, 2011 2012 2013 $ $ $ (in thousands) Current tax expense 1,948 2,074 3,107 Deferred tax expense/(benefit) (977 ) 526 690 971 2,600 3,797 Champion Technology and Beijing Champion obtained tax preferential treatments as “high and new technology enterprises” under EIT Law that resulted in lower tax rates. Champion Technology and Beijing Champion are subject to the tax rate of 15% from 2011 through 2013. Our other PRC entities are subject to standard income tax rate of 25% from 2011 through 2013. See “Risk Factors — General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China — The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to our PRC subsidiary, Champion Technology and affiliated entity, Beijing Champion, could materially increase our tax liabilities.” Our PRC subsidiaries’ earnings generated before 2008 that were available for distribution and were not subject to any PRC dividend withholding taxes amounted to $6.7 million. We distributed such earnings in December 2012. For our PRC subsidiaries’ earnings generated after 2008 that were available for distribution, provisions of $0.6 million and $0.3 million have been made in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012 and 2013, respectively, for the PRC dividend withholding taxes with respect to the distribution of these earnings to CDEL Hong Kong. See “Risk Factors — General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China — We may not be able to obtain certain treaty benefits on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries through our Hong Kong Subsidiary.” 59 Table of Contents Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise. The SAT issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. In addition, the SAT issued a bulletin on August 3, 2011, effective September 1, 2011, providing more guidance on the implementation of Circular 82. This bulletin clarifies matters including residence status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. Although both Circular 82 and the bulletin only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups and not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations, the determination criteria set forth in Circular 82 and the bulletin may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax residency status of offshore enterprises and how the administration measures should be implemented with respect to such enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC individuals. Although we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC constitute PRC resident enterprises, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities could reach a different conclusion. See “Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Doing Business in China — Under the PRC enterprise income tax law, we may be classified as a PRC ‘resident enterprise’, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment.” Business Tax, Value-Added Tax and Related Surcharges We are subject to approximately 3.36% business tax and related surcharges on the revenues earned from provision of online education services, which are recognized net of all business tax and related surcharges. Our other services related revenues are subject to 3.36% to 5.6% business tax and related surcharges, which are also recognized net of all business tax and related surcharges. Such business tax and related surcharges net against revenues for the years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013 are approximately $1.3 million, $1.7 million and $2.3 million, respectively. In addition, we are subject to 5.6% business tax and related surcharges on service fee received by Champion Technology and Champion Education Technology from Beijing Champion prior to September 1, 2012, and 5.6% business tax and related surcharges on service fee received by Champion Wangge from Beijing Champion, where tax and surcharges are included in the cost of services. Starting from September 1, 2012, service fee received by Champion Technology and Champion Education Technology from Beijing Champion is no longer subject to business tax, but subject to value-added tax, or VAT, at a rate of 6.0% and 3.0%, respectively, and related surcharges. We are required to remit the VAT we collected to the tax authority. Champion Technology is a VAT general taxpayer and the output VAT liability of Champion Technology is allowed to offset qualified input VAT paid to suppliers. On the other hand, Champion Education Technology is a VAT small-scale taxpayer and its output VAT liability is not allowed to offset its input VAT. Net VAT balance between input VAT and output VAT is recorded in either other current liabilities or other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets. In addition, in accordance with the relevant tax laws in the PRC, VAT is also calculated based on the sales value of books and reference materials and is payable by the purchaser. Revenues are recognized net of all VAT imposed by governmental authorities and collected from customers concurrent with revenue-producing transactions. VAT related to sales of our books and reference materials amounted to approximately $0.6 million, $0.6 million and $1.0 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities on the date of each set of consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each financial reporting period. We continually evaluate these estimates and assumptions based on the most recently available information, our own historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Since the use of estimates is an integral component of the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates as a result of changes in our estimates or changes in the facts or circumstances underlying our estimates and assumptions. 60 Table of Contents An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time such estimate is made, and if different accounting estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require higher degrees of judgment than others in their application. We consider the policies discussed below to be critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as their application places the most significant demands on our judgment. When reviewing our consolidated financial statements, you should take into account: • our critical accounting policies discussed below; • the related judgments made by us and other uncertainties affecting the application of these policies; • the sensitivity of our reported results to changes in prevailing facts and circumstances and our related estimates and assumptions; and • the risks and uncertainties described under “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors.” See Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report for additional information regarding our significant accounting policies. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues from our services and sales of products when the following four criteria are met: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) the service has been rendered, (iii) the fees are fixed or determinable, and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. Online education services. We generate most of our revenues from online education services provided to course participants pursuant to two types of revenue models — a non-refundable course model and a refundable course model. The online courses using the non-refundable course model are mainly comprised of regular classes and premium classes. The revenues for the regular classes are recognized on a straight line basis over the subscription period from the month in which the course participant enroll in the course to the month in which subscribed course terminates. For premium classes, if the course participant fails to pass the course examination and certain pre-agreed conditions are met, the participant can retake the same premium course and pay only 50% of the course fees. As such, the 50% discount is proportionately applied as a deduction to revenue recognized for each of the two premium classes that the course participant takes. For online courses using the refundable course model (i.e. elite classes), if the course participant completes the course and fails the professional exam and his or her score is within the range provided for in the agreement, the course participant is entitled to either a full refund or the right to retake the course. The participant must notify us within a 15 -30 day period after the professional examinations scores are released in order to be eligible for the refund or the right to retake the course. Proceeds from the refundable course model are initially recorded as “refundable fees.” Revenues are recognized upon the expiration of the course participants’ right to receive a refund or ratably over the course period if the participant decides to retake the course before the expiration of such right. We offer volume discounts to our regional distributors for purchases over a specified amount of prepaid cards during a specified period of time, generally one year. These discounts are provided to the regional distributors in the form of additional study cards. The after-discount prices of the study cards paid by the regional distributors to us are recognized as deferred revenue. Because we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of future rebates relating to these volume discounts, we record a deferred revenue balance for the maximum potential amount of the volume discount. If the number of purchases specified in the volume discount provisions is not reached upon the expiration of the volume discount period, we then either recognize the deferred revenue relating to such volume discount for each study card over the remaining period that the online course is available to users who enroll using the study card or immediately if the related online course has been completed. Additionally, we recognize proceeds allocated to the study cards that have never been activated for course enrollment as revenues upon their expiration. We also provide student recruiting services and our online platform to government agencies that conduct continuing education services through our websites. We earn service fees as a percentage of total tuition fees based on the agreements entered into with the government agencies. Service fees received are initially recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized as revenue when course participants complete the stipulated study hours and take their examinations, or on a straight line basis over the subscription period based on terms of the agreements. Books and reference materials. We sell books and reference materials to end users directly or through distributors. Revenues relating to such sales are deferred until cash is collected. Inventory costs of products delivered to distributors for which revenues have been deferred are presented as “deferred costs” on the consolidated balance sheets. 61 Table of Contents We also sell books and reference materials together with study cards, which allows course participants to take a certain number of online courses at no additional charge. These sales are considered arrangements with two deliverables, consisting of the delivery of books and reference materials and the online education services. As neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence of fair value of the deliverables exist due to the significant variability in the prices charged, we allocate revenues to each deliverable based on their relative selling prices. We determine the best estimate of selling price by applying the same pricing policies and methodologies that would be used to determine the price to sell the deliverable on a standalone basis. We recognize revenues of book and material sales when cash is collected and revenues of the study card over the subscription period the online course is available to end users who enroll using the study cards or upon expiration of the study cards. Others. We derive other revenue mainly from provision of offline education services, courseware production services, platform production services, and others. The offline education services mainly include two businesses: (1) accounting and healthcare professional training for accounting firms and the general public, and (2) the business start-up training service. We recognize revenues for accounting and healthcare professional training when the training courses are provided. For the business start-up training service, the tuition fees of the training participants are subsidized by the government. Since qualified enrollments and the fees to be earned cannot be determined until we have received confirmation from government agencies regarding such figures after the completion of services, we recognize the revenue upon cash receipt or the receipt of confirmation from government agencies, whichever is earlier, when all the other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We recognize revenues from sales of courseware or platforms, which are designed and developed pursuant to the requests from customers, when the courseware or platforms are accepted by the customers. We have no significant remaining obligation with respect to the courseware or platforms upon the acceptance of the customers. Long-Lived Assets — Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Judgment is required to determine the estimated useful lives of our long-lived assets. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. We evaluate our long-lived assets or asset group including intangibles with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances (such as a significant adverse change to market conditions that will impact the future use of the assets) indicate that the carrying amount of a group of long-lived assets may not be fully recoverable. When these events occur, we evaluate the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the assets to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value, generally based upon discounted cash flows. We performed the impairment tests for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets acquired with the acquisition of Champion Xinlixiang as of September 30, 2011 as we decided to discontinue the related business. For purposes of the recognition and measurement of an impairment loss of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, the reporting unit, as noted below, is considered the lowest level asset group that generates identifiable independent cash flows. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, the property, plant and equipment, and non-compete agreement relating to Champion Xinlixiang was impaired by $1.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively. If different judgments or estimates had been utilized, material differences could have resulted in the amount and timing of any impairment charge and the related depreciation and amortization charges. Goodwill Goodwill represents the cost of an acquired business in excess of the fair value of identifiable tangible and intangible net assets purchased. We assign all the assets and liabilities of an acquired business, including goodwill, to reporting units. As of September 30, 2013, we had two reporting units: online education service and business start-up training service. We disposed the reporting unit of our Gaokao retake business in May 2012. For more information, please see “— Results of Operations —Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2012 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2011 — Income (Loss) from discontinued operations.” We perform our goodwill impairment test on September 30th of each year. Impairment is tested using a two-step process. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. 62 Table of Contents If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill is not considered to be impaired and the second step will not be required. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step compares the implied fair value of goodwill to the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in a manner similar to accounting for a business combination with the allocation of the assessed fair value determined in the first step to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized for any excess in the carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill. Estimating fair value is performed by utilizing various valuation techniques. The following table sets forth the details of goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2013: Onlineeducation service Businessstart-uptraining service Total (in thousands of $) Estimated fair value 147,034 2,259 149,293 Carrying value net 55,642 1,678 57,320 Percentage by which the fair value exceed the carrying value 164.3 % 34.6 % The estimated fair value of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit * * The carrying value of goodwill 5,880 1,831 7,711 Goodwill impairment loss * * * The second step of goodwill impairment test was not performed for the reporting units of online education service and business start-up training service. In determining the fair values of our reporting units as of September 30, 2013, we considered the discounted cash flow method, or DCF, of the income approach to be more reliable than other approaches. The discounted cash flow for each reporting unit was projected based on financial forecast developed by management for planning purposes. Cash flows beyond the forecast periods were estimated using a terminal value calculation, which incorporated historical and forecasted financial trends for each reporting unit. Specifically, the income approach valuation included a cash flow discount rate at 17% – 23.5% and a terminal value growth rate at 3%. Publicly available information regarding our market capitalization was also considered in assessing the reasonableness of the aggregate fair value of all the reporting units estimated using the income approach valuation methodology. Based on the result of goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2013, no impairment of goodwill was identified for the reporting units of online education service and business start-up training service. The valuations are based on information available as of the impairment review date and are based on expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by the management. Any changes in key assumptions, including unanticipated events and circumstances, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates and could potentially result in additional impairment charge. Income taxes We follow the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will be in effect in the period in which the differences are expected to reverse. The tax base of an asset or liability is the amount attributed to that asset or liability for tax purposes. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in our income statement in the period that includes the enactment date. We consider current tax laws and our interpretation of them when we make our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to current provision for income tax. We also assess a valuation allowance to offset deferred tax assets if based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Such evidence includes our estimates of future taxable income and tax planning strategies. Changes in relevant tax laws, and our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to current provision for income tax could have resulted in material differences in the amount of income taxes provided in our consolidated financial statements. 63 Table of Contents Effective October 1, 2007, we adopted the recognition and measurement methods under the authoritative interpretation regarding the accounting and disclosure for uncertainty in tax positions. The guidance requires that we recognize the impact of a tax position in the financial statements if that position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit by the tax authority, based on the technical merits of the position. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Based on this assessment, as of September 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, we have recognized an approximately $0.2 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million accrual for unrecognized tax benefits which is included in the account of “accrued expenses and other liabilities”. The final outcome of the tax uncertainty is dependent upon various matters including tax examinations, interpretation of tax laws or expiration of statutes of limitation. We recognize, if any, interest related to unrecognized tax benefit in interest expense and penalties in other expenses. Changes in relevant tax laws, and our judgments, assumptions and estimates relative to current provision for income tax could have resulted in material differences in the amount of income taxes provided in our consolidated financial statements. Uncertainties exist with respect to how PRC’s EIT Law applies to our overall operations, and more specifically, with regard to our tax residency status. The EIT Law includes a provision specifying that legal entities organized outside of the PRC will be considered residents for PRC enterprise income tax purposes if their place of effective management or control is within the PRC. The implementation rules to the EIT Law provide that non-resident legal entities will be considered PRC residents if substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, among others, occur within the PRC. Despite the present uncertainties resulting from the limited PRC tax guidance on the issue, we do not believe that our legal entities organized outside of the PRC should be treated as residents for the EIT Law’s purposes. If one or more of our legal entities organized outside of the PRC were characterized as PRC tax residents, the impact would adversely affect our results of operation. See “Item 3.D. Key Information — Risk Factors — General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China — Under China’s EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders.” Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We regularly evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts when we believe there is a risk to the collectability of accounts receivable. An allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded in the period in which a loss is determined to be probable based on an assessment of specific evidence indicating doubtful collection, historical experience, account balance aging and prevailing economic conditions. Actual collections of the accounts receivable could differ significantly from the original estimates. Share-based Compensation Expenses Share-based payment transactions with employees and non-executive directors are measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instrument issued and recognized as compensation expense over the requisite service period, with a corresponding addition to paid-in capital. We recognize compensation expense over the vesting term on a straight-line basis with the amount of compensation expense recognized during any period not less than the portion of the grant-date value of the option vested during that period. Share-based payment transactions with non-employees are measured based on the fair value at the earlier of the commitment date or the date at which the non-employee’s performance is complete. We recognize compensation expense using the graded vesting attribution method. The total incremental compensation expense resulting from the modifications of the exercise price and vesting period of all outstanding share options under the Prior Plan is recognized over the remaining requisite service period for such employees and non-employees, respectively. In addition, the unamortized compensation expense resulting from the cancellation of share options under the New Plan is recognized as an expense upon cancellation. 64 Table of Contents We estimated the fair value of each option award granted to employees, and non-employees under the Prior Plan using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model. We also estimated the fair value of each option award granted to non-executive directors and employees under the New Plan using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model. The volatility assumption was estimated based on the price volatility of the shares of education companies that are publicly traded on securities markets in the United States and selected by us as guideline companies because we did not have sufficient historical data to calculate expected volatility of the price of the underlying ordinary shares over the expected term of the options. The expected term was estimated based on the vesting, contractual terms and our expectation of exercise behavior of the option grantees. The risk-free rate was based on the market yield of China Sovereign Bonds denominated in US$ with maturity terms equal to the expected term of the option awards. Prior to the completion of initial public offering in July 2008, when estimating the fair value of the ordinary shares on the grant date, we considered a number of factors, including our financial condition, financial and operating prospects with reference to our equity transactions at that time. After our initial public offering, the closing market price of our ordinary shares on the grant date or measurement date was used as the fair value of our ordinary shares on that date. We estimated forfeitures at the time of grant based on our historical experiences and record share-based compensation expenses only for those awards that are expected to vest. Changes in estimated forfeitures will be recognized through a cumulative catch-up adjustment in the period of change and will also impact the amount of share-based compensation expense to be recognized in future periods. Consolidation of Variable Interest Entity We conduct substantially all of our education business through Beijing Champion, our variable interest entity, and its subsidiaries. We have entered into contractual arrangements with Beijing Champion and its shareholders such that Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries are considered variable interest entities for which we are considered their primary beneficiary. We believe that the powers of attorney are valid, binding and enforceable under existing PRC laws and regulations and enable our subsidiary, Champion Technology, to vote on all matters requiring Beijing Champion’s shareholder approval. We also believe that the exclusive purchase right contracts provide us with a substantive kick out right. More specifically, we believe that the terms of the exclusive purchase right contracts are currently exercisable and legally enforceable under current PRC laws and regulations, and believe that the minimum amount of consideration permitted by the applicable PRC law to exercise the purchase right does not represent a financial barrier or disincentive for us to currently exercise our rights under the purchase right contract. Our rights under the powers of attorney and the exclusive purchase right contract give us the power to control the shareholders of Beijing Champion and thus the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the Beijing Champion’s economic performance. We believe that our ability to exercise control, together with the service agreements and the equity pledge agreements, give us the rights to receive substantially all of the economic benefits from Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries in consideration for the services provided by Champion Technology. Accordingly, as the primary beneficiary of Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries and in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we consolidate Beijing Champion’s financial results, and assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. As advised by Jingtian & Gongcheng, our PRC counsel, our corporate structure in China complies with all existing PRC laws and regulations. However, our PRC counsel has also advised us that as there is substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations. As such, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that our corporate structure or any of the above contractual arrangements comply with current or future PRC laws or regulations. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are uncertain and the relevant governmental authorities may have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. See “Item 3. Key Information — D. Risk factors — Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Industry — We rely on contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entity and its shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership”, and “The shareholders of Beijing Champion may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.” 65 Table of Contents We have further considered the existence of related party relationships, e.g. ownership of an equity interest in our company and the VIE, and the effect that might have on the enforceability of the contractual agreements and in turn whether these contractual agreements are substantive. We believe there are no barriers to exercise our rights under the VIE agreements and therefore they are substantive and appropriately considered in our consolidation analysis. The contractual arrangements between us and the VIEs were designed to provide us with the characteristics of a controlling financial interest regardless of the respective shareholdings of Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin. We acknowledge that starting in December 2011, Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin became a majority voting shareholder in our company while remaining a majority nominee shareholder in the VIEs. Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin’s majority voting interest in us, when combined with their status as a majority nominee shareholder in the VIEs, could constrain our ability to exercise the rights under the VIE agreements. This is due to the fact that Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin’s majority voting interest in our company provide them with the ability to potentially affect the composition of a majority of the board of directors and therefore may have provided them with the ability to affect whether or not we could exercise the rights contained in the VIE agreements. Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin did not exercise this power at any time during the period in which they held a majority voting interest in our company and, in fact, there was no change in the composition of the board of directors or in our day-to-day operations during such period. To preserve our ability to exercise the rights contained in the VIE agreements, on September 26, 2013, our company, Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin executed a deed of undertaking, or the Deed. The Deed requires Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin, to the extent that they have a majority voting interest in our company, to abstain from (1) exercising his or her majority voting rights in any vote pertaining to the appointment or removal of a director and (2) any matters related to the Deed. For more details, see “