ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The following risks relate principally to our business and our status as a publicly-traded company. The risks and uncertainties described below are those risks of which we are aware, that we consider to be material to our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by a number of factors, including the factors set forth below. (1) We have a history of losses and although we achieved profitability in 2008 we may not sustain profitability, particularly if we were to lose large contracts. Old Digimarc’s Digital Watermarking Business had incurred significant net losses from inception. Old Digimarc’s accumulated deficit was $100 million as of December 31, 2007. For the combined periods January 1, 2008 through August 1, 2008 and August 2, 2008 through December 31, 2008 we generated net income of $1.5 million, which included net income reported in the financial statements for the period January 1 through August 1, 2008 which we generated net income of $1.4 million that were “carved out” from Old Digimarc’s consolidated financial statements and reflect assumptions and allocations made by Old Digimarc. Since the spin-off we have an accumulated deficit of $2.7 million as of December 31, 2009. Achieving profitability in the future will depend upon a variety of factors, including our ability to maintain and obtain more significant partnerships like those we have with the Central Banks and Nielsen, growth in revenues of our licensees, and our 6 Table of Contents efficiency in executing our business strategy and capitalizing on new opportunities. Various adverse developments, including the loss of large contracts or cost overruns on our existing contracts, could have a negative effect on our revenues, margins and profitability. (2) A small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues and the loss of any large contract could materially disrupt our business. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Two customers, the Bank for International Settlements, acting on behalf of the Central Banks, and Nielsen, including the joint ventures TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC, represented approximately 77% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Most of our revenues come from long-term contracts generally having terms of three to five years, with some licenses for the life of the associated patents, which could be up to 20 years. Some contracts we enter into contain termination for convenience provisions. If we were to lose such a contract for any reason, our financial results could be adversely affected. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or decline in, orders or backlog from one or more major customers could reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial results. (3) A significant portion of our revenue is subject to commercial contracts and development of new markets that may involve unpredictable delays and other unexpected changes, which might limit our actual revenue in any given quarter or year. We derive substantial portions of our revenue from commercial contracts tied to development schedules or development of new markets, which could shift for months, quarters or years as the needs of our customers and the markets in which they participate change. Government agencies and commercial customers also face budget pressures that introduce added uncertainty. Any shift in development schedules, the markets in which we or our licensees participate, or customer procurement processes, which are outside our control and may not be predictable, could result in delays in bookings forecasted for any particular period, could affect the predictability of our quarterly and annual results, and might limit our actual revenue in any given quarter or year, resulting in reduced and less predictable revenue and adversely affecting profitability. (4) We have limited operating history as a separate public company and our historical financial information prior to the spin-off is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate publicly-traded company, and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The predecessor financial statements have been “carved out” from Old Digimarc’s consolidated financial statements and reflect assumptions and allocations made by Old Digimarc. The predecessor financial statements do not fully represent what the predecessor’s financial position, results of operations and cash flow would have been had it operated as a stand-alone public company for the periods presented, or those that we expect to achieve in the future because, among other reasons, prior to the spin-off, the digital watermarking business was operated by Old Digimarc as part of a larger corporate organization. For the year ended December 31, 2009 we operated as a stand-alone company for the full year and, as expected, our operating costs on a stand-alone basis were higher than those allocated to the predecessor operations under the shared services methodology applied in the predecessor financial statements. As a result, the predecessor information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not necessarily indicative of what our future financial position, results of operations and cash flow will be. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 provide a better understanding of our financial position, results of operations and cash flow as a stand-alone company, these financial statements may not be a reliable indicator of future results. 7 Table of Contents (5) The market for our products is highly competitive and alternative technology or larger companies may undermine, limit or eliminate the market for our products’ technologies, which would decrease our revenue and profits. The markets in which we compete for business are intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We expect competition to continue from both existing competitors and new market entrants. We face competition from other companies and from alternative technology. Because the market solutions based on our technologies are still in an early stage of development, we also may face competition from unexpected sources. Alternative technology that may directly or indirectly compete with particular applications of our watermarking technologies include: • Encryption—securing data during distribution using a secret code so it cannot be accessed except by authorized users; • Containers—inserting a media object in an encrypted wrapper, which prevents the media object from being duplicated, used for content distribution and transaction management; • DataGlyphs®—a slightly visible modification of the characteristics of an image or document that is machine-readable; • Scrambled Indicia® —an optical refraction-based data-hiding technique that is inserted into an image and can be read with a lens; • Traditional anti-counterfeiting technologies—a number of solutions used by many governments (that compete for budgetary outlays) designed to deter counterfeiting, including optically sensitive ink, magnetic threads and other materials used in the printing of currencies; • Radio frequency tags—embedding a chip that emits a signal when in close proximity with a receiver, used in some photo identification credentials, labels and tags; • Internet technologies—numerous existing and potential Internet access and search methods are competitive with Digimarc Mobile systems and the searching capabilities of Digimarc for Images; • Digital fingerprints and signatures—a metric, or metrics, computed solely from a source image or audio or video track, that can be used to identify an image or track, or authenticate the image or track; • Smart cards—badges and cards including a semiconductor memory and /or processor, used for authentication and related purposes; and • Bar codes or QR codes—data-carrying codes, typically visible in nature (but may be invisible if printed in ultraviolet- or infrared-responsive inks). In the competitive environment in which we operate, product generation, development and marketing processes relating to technology are uncertain and complex, requiring accurate prediction of demand as well as successful management of various development risks inherent in technology development. In light of these dependencies, it is possible that failure to successfully accommodate future changes in technologies related to our technology could have a long-term effect on our growth and results of operations. New developments are expected to continue, and discoveries by others, including current and potential competitors, possibly could render our services and products noncompetitive. Moreover, because of rapid technological changes, we may be required to expend greater amounts of time and money than anticipated to develop new products and services, which in turn may require greater revenue streams from these products and services to cover developmental costs. Many of the companies that compete with us for some of our business, as well as other companies with whom we may compete in the future, are larger and may have greater technical, financial, marketing, and political resources than we do. These resources could enable these companies to initiate severe price cuts or take other measures in an effort to gain market share or otherwise impede our progress. We 8 Table of Contents may be unable to compete successfully against current or future participants in our market or against alternative technologies, and the competitive pressures we face could decrease our revenue and profits in the future. (6) The joint ventures agreements we entered into with Nielsen may not produce marketable products that will provide a return on investment on the initial cash contributions. TVaura LLC is a jointly owned company that we established with Nielsen to focus on the discovery, development and commercialization of copyright filtering solutions, royalty/audit systems or products for online video and audio rights organizations, guilds or other organizations involved in reconciliation of royalties, residuals and other payments, and other related products. TVaura Mobile LLC is a jointly owned company that we established with Nielsen to focus on the discovery, development and commercialization of certain enhanced television offerings, and other related products. As part of these joint ventures, we licensed to each of TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC all of our patents and technology not already subject to exclusive license grants to other licensees. The products contemplated by the joint ventures are still in the development stage, will require additional investment and oversight before they can be brought to market. If the joint ventures are successful in developing these products, the products will be new and untested, and they may not have a ready market. We cannot predict how the market will react to our product offerings or any potential revenue that may or may not be realized. We are nonetheless committed to provide financial support to both joint ventures through October 2011, regardless of whether the joint ventures are successful in their product development efforts during that time. Our initial investment in these two joint ventures may result in neither product offerings nor a return on investment. (7) Our joint venture transactions with Nielsen may not realize all of their intended benefits. In connection with TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating our corporate culture and business objectives with those of Nielsen into the joint ventures; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business objectives; • higher than anticipated costs of integration, development and operations at the joint ventures; • difficulties in hiring or retaining key employees who are necessary to manage the joint ventures; or • difficulties in coordinating with an entity remote to our Beaverton, Oregon operations. Moreover, each of TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC is operated as an independent company and governed by a members’ committee. We and Nielsen can elect an equal number of representatives to serve on each members’ committee. Each joint venture plans to develop contemplated products pursuant to an operating plan that is approved by the members’ committee. Since Nielsen has significant oversight and voting rights with respect to major business decisions of TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC, we do not have control over the joint ventures’ operations, including business decisions that may affect each joint venture’s profitability or success in meeting its objectives. For any of these reasons, or as a result of other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the joint ventures, and our participation in the joint ventures could adversely affect the results of our other business efforts. (8) Disagreements between Nielsen and us regarding the strategy and priorities of the joint ventures or shortage of additional funding for the joint ventures may impede the development of joint venture products, which could negatively affect the value of our investment in TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC. Any disagreements between Nielsen and us regarding a development decision or any other decision submitted to either joint venture’s members’ committee may cause significant delays in the development and 9 Table of Contents commercialization of the particular joint venture’s products and technology and could negatively affect the value of our investment in the joint ventures. In addition, neither we nor Nielsen have any obligation to fund the joint ventures beyond the initial cash contributions provided in the joint venture agreements. If the joint ventures are unable to generate cash sufficient to develop and commercialize their products, and if additional funding is unavailable from us, Nielsen or third parties, we may not recognize the intended benefits of the joint ventures. (9) We depend on our management and key employees for our future success. If we are not able to retain, hire or integrate these employees, we may not be able to meet our commitments. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance and continued service of our management and our intellectual property team. The loss of the services of any of these employees could limit our growth or undermine customer relationships. Due to the high level of technical expertise that our industry requires, our ability to successfully develop, market, sell, license and support our products, services, and intellectual property depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key personnel in engineering, sales, marketing, operations, legal and licensing, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to retain our current key employees and our ability to attract, integrate and retain these personnel in the future. It may not be practical for us to match the compensation some of our employees could garner at other employment. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in hiring and retaining employees because of concerns related to our financial performance. These circumstances may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock, and employees and prospective employees may factor in the uncertainties relating to our stability and the value of any equity-based incentives in their decisions regarding employment opportunities and decide to leave our employ. Moreover, our business is based in large part on patented technology, which is unique and not generally known. New employees require substantial training, involving significant resources and management attention. Competition for experienced personnel in our business can be intense. If we do not succeed in attracting new, qualified personnel or in integrating, retaining and motivating our current personnel, our growth and ability to deliver products and services that our customers require may be hampered. Although our employees generally have executed agreements containing non-competition clauses, we do not assure you that a court would enforce all of the terms of these clauses or the clauses generally. If these clauses were not fully enforced, our employees could be able to freely join our competitors. Although we generally attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information by our employees, we do not assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial and business prospects. (10) If leading companies in our industry or standard-setting bodies or institutions downplay, minimize, or reject the use of our technology, deployment may be slowed and we may be unable to achieve revenue growth, particularly in the media and entertainment sectors. Many of our business endeavors, such as our licensing of intellectual property in support of audio and video copy-control applications, can be impeded or frustrated by larger, more influential companies or by standard-setting bodies or institutions downplaying, minimizing or rejecting the value or use of our technology. A negative position by these companies, bodies or institutions, if taken, may result in obstacles for us that we would be incapable of overcoming and may block or impede the adoption of digital watermarking, particularly in the media and entertainment market. In addition, potential customers in the media and entertainment industry may delay or reject initiatives that relate to deployment of our technology. Such a development would make the achievement of our business objectives in this market difficult or impossible. (11) If we are unable to respond to regulatory or industry standards effectively, or if we are unable to develop and integrate new technologies effectively, our growth and the development of our products and services could be delayed or limited. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services, and those of our business partners, in accordance with 10 Table of Contents regulatory or industry standards. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in part on our ability to influence and respond to emerging industry and governmental standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to influence these or other standards or respond to these standards effectively, our growth and the development of various products and services could be delayed or limited. Our market is characterized by new and evolving technologies. The success of our business will depend on our ability to develop and integrate new technologies effectively and address the increasingly sophisticated technological needs of our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in part on our ability to: • enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and other features of the products and services we offer or plan to offer; • continue to develop our technical expertise; and • develop and introduce new services, applications and technologies to meet changing customer needs and preferences and to integrate new technologies. We do not assure you that we will be successful in responding to these technological and industry challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to develop or integrate new technologies effectively or respond to these changing needs, our margins could decrease, and our release of new products and services and the deployment of our watermarking technology could be adversely affected. (12) We may need to retain additional employees or contract labor in the future in order to take advantage of new business opportunities arising from increased demand, which could increase costs and impede our ability to achieve or sustain profitability in the short term. We have staffed our company with the intent of achieving and sustaining profitability. Our current staffing levels could affect our ability to respond to increased demand for our services. In addition, to meet any increased demand and take advantage of new business opportunities in the future, we may need to increase our workforce through additional employees or contract labor. Although we believe that increasing our workforce would potentially support anticipated growth and profitability, it would increase our costs. If we experience such an increase in costs, we may not succeed in achieving or sustaining profitability in the short term. (13) Our future growth will depend to some extent on our successful implementation of our technology in solutions provided by third parties, including partners and suppliers. Our business and strategy rely substantially on deployment of our technology by our licensees and other third-party software developers and original equipment manufacturers. For example, one form of our technology is commonly deployed in image editing applications to permit users of these products to read data embedded in imagery, and thereby identify ownership and discern the identities of image owners. Another form of our technology is used in our anti-counterfeiting products. Our technology is also being deployed as part of Digital Cinema systems to theatres around the world by companies that integrate technologies and subsystems. If third parties who include our technology in their products or otherwise license our intellectual property for use in their products cease to do so, or we fail to obtain other partners who will incorporate, embed, integrate or bundle our technology, or these partners are unsuccessful in their efforts, our efforts to expand deployment of our technology and increase licensing revenues would be adversely affected. Consequently, our ability to increase revenues would be adversely affected and we may suffer other adverse effects to our business. In addition, if our technology does not perform according to market expectations, our future sales would suffer as customers seek other providers. (14) The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, cost of capital and business operations. The general economic and capital market conditions in the U.S. and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly over the last eighteen months and have adversely affected access to capital and 11 Table of Contents increased the cost of capital. So long as these conditions continue or become worse, our future cost of debt and equity capital and our access to capital markets could be adversely affected. Any inability to obtain needed capital through adequate financing from debt or equity capital sources could force us to self-fund strategic initiatives or even forgo some opportunities, potentially harming our business operations and results. In addition, our ability to find investments that are both safe and liquid and that provide a reasonable return may be impaired. This could result in lower interest income, longer investment tenures or higher other-than-temporary impairments. (15) The current economic downturn may impair the financial soundness of our licensees and customers, which could adversely affect our business operations. As a result of the current economic downturn and macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the U.S. and other parts of the world, our customers and licensees may be negatively affected in ways that reduce our revenues and margins, quality of receivables, and cash flow. Our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased approximately 4% from the combined Old Digimarc and Digimarc operations of the prior year, however, we have not experienced any negative effects on either the quality of our receivables or our cash flows. If the economic downturn continues, we may see further adverse effects on our licensees and customers, and ultimately our business operations. (16) An increase in our operations outside of the U.S. subjects us to risks additional to those to which we are exposed in our domestic operations. We believe that revenue from sales of products and services to commercial, governmental and other customers outside the U.S. could represent a growing percentage of our total revenue in the future. International sales and services are subject to a number of risks that can adversely affect our sales of products and services to customers outside of the U.S., including the following: • changes in foreign government regulations and security requirements; • export license requirements, tariffs and taxes; • trade barriers; • difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • currency fluctuations; • longer payment cycles than those for customers in the U.S.; • difficulty in managing foreign operations; and • political and economic instability. We do not have an extensive operational infrastructure for international business. We generally depend on local or international business partners and subcontractors for performance of substantial portions of our business. These factors may result in greater risk of performance problems or of reduced profitability with respect to our international programs in these markets. In addition, if foreign customers, in particular foreign government authorities, terminate or delay the implementation of our products and services, it may be difficult for us to recover our potential losses. (17) The terms and conditions of our contracts could subject us to damages, losses and other expenses if we fail to meet delivery and other performance requirements. Our service contracts typically include provisions imposing: • development, delivery and installation schedules and milestones; 12 Table of Contents • customer acceptance and testing requirements; and • other performance requirements. To the extent these provisions involve performance over extended periods of time, risks of noncompliance may increase. From time to time we have experienced delays in system implementation, timely acceptance of programs, concerns regarding program performance and other contractual disputes. If we fail to meet contractual milestones or other performance requirements as promised, or to successfully resolve customer disputes, we could incur liability for damages, as well as increased costs, lower margins, or compensatory obligations in addition to other losses, such as harm to our reputation. Any unexpected increases in costs to meet our contractual obligations or any other requirements necessary to address claims and damages with regard to our customer contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. (18) Products deploying our technology could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us, divert application of our resources from other purposes or increase our project implementation and support costs. Products and services as complex as those we offer or develop may contain undetected defects or errors. Furthermore, we often provide complex implementation, integration, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our products. Despite testing, defects or errors in our products and services may occur, which could result in delays in the development and implementation of products and systems, inability to meet customer requirements or expectations in a timely manner, loss of revenue or market share, increased implementation and support costs, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs, increased service and warranty costs and warranty or breach of contract claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from warranty or breach of contract claims through warranty disclaimers and liability limitation clauses in our sales agreements when we can, these contractual provisions are sometimes not included and may not be enforceable in every instance. If a court refuses to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arise that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, the expense associated with defending these actions or paying the resultant claims could be significant. (19) The security systems used in our product and service offerings may be circumvented or sabotaged by third parties, which could result in the disclosure of sensitive information or private personal information or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Our business relies on computers and other information technologies, both internal and at customer locations. The protective measures that we use may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and expose us to litigation and liability. A party who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate sensitive or proprietary information or materials or cause interruptions or otherwise damage our products, services and reputation, and the property of our customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of our systems, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to our customers or lose the confidence of our customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of our contracts. Further, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from these events. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect ourselves against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Any protection or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective if commenced. 13 Table of Contents (20) We are subject to risks encountered by companies developing and relying upon new technologies, products and services for substantial amounts of their growth or revenue. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties to which companies with new and rapidly evolving technology, products and services are exposed. These risks include the following: • we may be unable to develop sources of new revenue or sustainable growth in revenue because our current and anticipated technologies, products and services may be inadequate or may be unable to attract or retain customers; • the intense competition and rapid technological change in our industry could adversely affect the market’s acceptance of our existing and new products and services; • we may be unable to develop and maintain new technologies upon which our existing and new products and services are dependent in order for our products and services to be sustainable and competitive and in order for us to expand our revenue and business; and • our licensees may not be able to successfully enter new markets or grow their businesses, limiting the royalties payable to us and our associated revenues and profits. Some of our key technology and solutions from our patent or technology licensees are in the development stage. Consequently, products incorporating our technology and solutions are undergoing technological change and are in the early stage of introduction in the marketplace. Delays in the adoption of these products or adverse competitive developments may result in delays in the development of new revenue sources or the growth in our revenue. In addition, we may be required to incur unanticipated expenditures if product changes or improvements are required. Additionally, new industry standards might redefine the products that we or our licensees are able to sell, especially if these products are only in the prototype stage of development. If product changes or improvements are required, success in marketing these products by us or our licensees and achieving profitability from these products could be delayed or halted. We also may be required to fund any changes or improvements out of operating income, which could adversely affect our profitability. (21) We may not be able to protect adequately our intellectual property, and we may be subject to infringement claims and other litigation, which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on licensing our proprietary technology. To protect our intellectual property portfolio, we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Unlicensed copying and use of our intellectual property or infringement of our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of revenue to us. Although we devote significant resources to developing and protecting our technologies, and periodically evaluate potential competitors of our technologies for infringement of our intellectual property rights, these infringements may nonetheless go undetected or may arise in the future. We face risks associated with our patent position, including the potential need from time to time to engage in significant legal proceedings to enforce our patents, the possibility that the validity or enforceability of our patents may be challenged, and the possibility that third parties will be able to compete against us without infringing our patents. Budgetary concerns may cause us not to file or continue litigation against known infringers of our patent rights, or may cause us not to file for, or pursue, patent protection for all of our inventive technology in jurisdictions where they may have value. Some governmental entities that might infringe our intellectual property rights may enjoy sovereign immunity from such claims. Failure to reliably enforce our patent rights against infringers may make licensing more difficult. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology adequately, if there are changes in applicable laws that are adverse to our interests, or if we become involved in litigation relating to our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology or relating to the intellectual property rights of others, our business could be seriously harmed because the value ascribed to our intellectual property could diminish and result in a lower stock price, or we may incur significant costs in bringing legal proceedings against third parties who are infringing our patents. 14 Table of Contents Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited. Patent protection throughout the world is generally established on a country-by-country basis. We have applied for patent protection in the U.S and in various other countries. We do not assure you, however, that pending patents will be issued or that issued patents will be valid or enforceable. Failure to obtain these patents or failure to enforce those patents that are obtained may result in a loss of revenue to us. We do not assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our services or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary course of building strategic business relationships with potential partners we may encounter companies that we believe are infringing on our patent portfolio. When we encounter these companies we believe are infringing, we try to negotiate a license to our patents. If we are unable to negotiate a license and continue to believe they are infringing on our patents, we may file a lawsuit and incur legal fees in the process. We are the exclusive licensee under some third-party patents, and may need the assistance of these parties if we choose to enforce any of these patent rights. The cooperation of these third parties cannot be assured. Although we rely on some of these technologies for our products or for our licenses to third parties to date, the licensed patents have not been material to our operations. As more companies engage in business activities relating to digital watermarking, and develop corresponding intellectual property rights, it is increasingly likely that claims may arise which assert that some of our products or services infringe upon other parties’ intellectual property rights. These claims could subject us to costly litigation, divert management resources and result in the invalidation of our intellectual property rights. These claims may require us to pay significant damages, cease production of infringing products, terminate our use of infringing technology or develop non-infringing technologies. In these circumstances, continued use of our technology may require that we acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement, and we might not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our use of protected technology may result in liability that threatens our continuing operation. Some of our contracts include provisions regarding our non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. As deployment of our technology increases, and more companies enter our markets, the likelihood of a third party lawsuit resulting from these provisions increases. If an infringement arose in a context governed by such a contract, we may have to refund to our customer amounts already paid to us or pay significant damages, or we may be sued by the party allegedly infringed upon. Similarly, as we seek to broaden the number of companies licensed under our patent portfolio, some may seek contractual assurances that we will pursue—by litigation if necessary—their competitors who use our patented technology but are not licensed to do so. Compliance with any such contract provisions may require that we pursue litigation where our costs exceed our likely recovery. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, directors, consultants and corporate partners, and attempt to control access to and distribution of our technology, solutions, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these procedures, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and make unauthorized use of our technology, solutions or other proprietary information or independently develop similar technologies, solutions or information. The steps that we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our solutions, technology or other proprietary information may not prevent their misappropriation. (22) If our revenue models and pricing structures relating to products and services that are under development do not gain market acceptance, the products and services may fail to attract or retain customers and we may not be able to generate new or sustain existing revenue. Some of our business involves embedding digital watermarks in traditional and digital media, including identification documents, secure documents, audio, video and imagery, and licensing our intellectual property. Our revenue stream is based primarily on a combination of development, consulting, subscription and license 15 Table of Contents fees from copyright protection and counterfeit deterrence applications. We have not fully developed revenue models for some of our future digital watermarking applications and licensing endeavors. Because some of our products and services are not yet well-established in the marketplace, and because some of these products and services will not directly displace existing solutions, we cannot be certain that the pricing structure for these products and services will gain market acceptance or be sustainable over time or that the marketing for these products and services will be effective. (23) We are involved in pending litigation and an adverse resolution of such litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. From time to time in our normal course of business we are a party to various legal claims, actions and complaints. As part of our patent licensing program, we bring claims or counterclaims of patent infringement to enforce our patent rights. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able to estimate the amount or range of gain or loss that could result from an outcome of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. We could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. We are a defendant in a pending declaratory judgment action brought by Arbitron, alleging that certain of our patents are invalid or not infringed. An unfavorable outcome in the Arbitron suit or any future legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional information regarding the Arbitron lawsuit in which we are involved, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, to the accompanying financial statements. RISK RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STOCK (24) Our common stock price may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment in shares of our common stock. The price of shares of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the price of shares of our common stock include: • the public’s reaction to our public disclosures; • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or future prospects; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles applicable to us; • conditions of the industry as a result of changes in financial markets or general economic or political conditions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock in the future, or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • changes in analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding us, other comparable companies or the industry generally, and our ability to meet those estimates; • future issuances of our common stock or the perception that future sales could occur; and • volatility in the equity securities market. 16 Table of Contents (25) Our corporate governance documents, our rights agreement and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. On July 31, 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a rights agreement pursuant to which one one-hundredth (1/100) of a preferred stock purchase right will be issued for each outstanding share of our common stock. In general terms, our rights agreement works by imposing a significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, without the approval of our Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 