D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business If we are unable to continue to attract course participants to enroll in our courses, or to charge our course participants competitive but profitable fees, our revenues may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability. The continued success and growth of our business depend primarily on the number of enrollments in our courses and the amount of course fees that we can charge. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to develop new courses and improve existing courses to respond to changes in market trends and demands of course participants, to effectively market our courses to a broader base of prospective course participants, to train and retain qualified lecturers and tutors, to develop or acquire additional high-quality educational content and to respond to competitive pressures. In addition, the expansion of our courses, services and products in terms of the types of offerings may not succeed due to competition, our failure to effectively market our new courses, services and products or to maintain their quality and consistency, or other factors. Furthermore, we may not be able to develop and offer additional content on commercially reasonable terms and in a timely manner, or at all, to keep pace with changes in market requirements. If we are unable to continue to attract course participants to enroll in our courses, increase enrollments in our relatively new courses, or charge competitive but profitable fees, our revenues may decline and we may be unable to achieve revenue growth or maintain our profitability. 5 Table of Contents If we fail to develop and introduce new courses, services and products that meet our target course participants’ expectations, or adopt new technologies important to our business, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues may be materially and adversely affected. Historically, our core business centered on the provision of online professional education and test preparation courses for accounting professionals. We have since expanded our course offerings to target course participants in the healthcare, engineering & construction, law and other industries, as well as participants of online courses for self-taught learners seeking higher education and other forms of online and offline education. In addition to regular classes, we have also introduced, in the past few years, “elite” classes and “premium” classes within some of our most popular course offerings to better serve the needs of high-end course participants. The profitability of the elite and premium classes may be subject to risks given that the course participants enjoy refund or discount privileges if certain pre-agreed conditions are met. We also offer business start-up training courses, which are subsidized by the PRC government, the profitability of which may be subject to risks given that the subsidy we are entitled to receive from the government in certain provinces and cities may be reduced if certain stipulated conditions in the government’s subsidy policies are not met. We intend to continue developing new courses, services and products. The timing of the introduction of new courses, services and products is subject to risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, logistical, regulatory or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more of new courses, services or products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any of these courses, products and services will match the quality or popularity of those developed by our competitors, achieve widespread market acceptance or generate the desired level of income. Technology standards in Internet and value-added telecommunications services and products in general, and in online education services in particular, may change over time. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to such technological changes, our market share and our business development could suffer, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the risks relating to new courses, services and products, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on the continued success of our key brands and the further enhancement of our newer brands. If we fail to maintain and enhance recognition of our brands, we may face difficulty in obtaining new business partners and course participants, and our business reputation and operating results may be harmed. We believe that market awareness of our key brands, “Chinaacc” and “med66.com,” have contributed significantly to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing these key brands, further improving our brands in other industries and introducing new brands are critical to our efforts to grow our course participant base and attract additional business partners. We may need to incur significant marketing and promotion costs to maintain and enhance our brands. Failure to maintain and enhance recognition of our brands could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if there are changes in the perceived difficulty, requirements or formats of professional examinations, courses and continuing education in China, or if certain professional qualifications and certificates are cancelled by the government authorities. We provide online professional education and test preparation courses relating to the accounting, healthcare, engineering & construction, law and other industries. In addition, we also provide online professional continuing education courses relating to the accounting, healthcare and engineering & construction industries. We have obtained approval and exclusive rights to offer self-taught study process monitoring programs in certain provinces and cities, to allow learners to earn up to 30% of the credits they need to obtain post-secondary self-taught education degrees. If there is any material change to the perceived difficulty, requirements or formats of examinations, courses and continuing education in our course offerings, and we are unable to modify or supplement our courses or training materials to address these changes in a timely manner, the demand for, and relevance of, our courses and training materials may be adversely affected, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if competent government authorities decide to cancel certain professional qualifications or certificates, our business relating to relevant course offerings would be materially and adversely affected. For example, the PRC State Council promulgated a decision in August 2014, pursuant to which various professional qualifications or certificates, including the Registered Tax Agent and Certified Asset Appraiser Qualification, were cancelled or replaced with a qualification evaluation system administered by the State Council. As a result, the number of our students enrollments and, therefore, revenues generated from our course offerings for these professional qualifications or certificates are expected to be adversely affected. If there are any material changes in the professional qualification licensing and identification in our course offerings, and we are unable to address these changes in a timely manner, our revenue generated from related course offerings may be adversely affected, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Changes in the government authorities’ subsidy policy with respect to our business start-up training courses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We provide business start-up training courses, which are sponsored by government authorities, to university students and job seekers using materials prepared in accordance with requirements of the relevant government authorities in various provinces and cities. We do not charge fees to course participants enrolled in our business start-up training courses; instead, we receive payments from the relevant government authorities for courses provided. Our net revenue generated from such courses is conditioned on our ability to meet the government stipulated conditions under the subsidy policies, which is determined by the government authorities’ assessment of the passage rate of our course participants’ business proposals as evaluated by such authorities, as well as the business start-up rate and employment rate of our course participants. If there are any material changes to the government subsidy policy, and we are unable to meet the newly stipulated conditions or to address these changes in a timely manner, our revenue generated from this course offering may be adversely affected, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on our lecturers comprised primarily of academics and experienced practitioners within their respective industries who are typically engaged on a part-time contractual basis. The vast majority of our lecturers are academics from post-secondary educational institutions and experienced practitioners within their respective industries in China who typically work for us on a part-time basis. A small portion of our lecturers are our tutors who remain full-time employees after becoming our lecturers. The popularity and effectiveness of our courses depend, in part, on the teaching ability of these lecturers and their reputation as skilled lecturers. Consequently, our reputation and operating results could be adversely affected if we fail to attract qualified lecturers or to maintain or improve the quality of our lectures. For example, if our lecturers fail to deliver quality lectures as a result of inadequate devotion of their time and energy to our courses or for other reasons, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, as the online education industry grows and matures, we may face increasing competition from our competitors for lecturers with good reputations and effective teaching skills, and on whom we rely for delivering quality services and to maintain and promote our leading market position. Additionally, our lecturers may join our competitors or set up competing businesses after they discontinue their relationship with us, which could further adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, China has promulgated certain regulations prohibiting post-secondary teachers from engaging in part-time jobs that may have an adverse effect on their primary teaching posts and prohibiting public school teachers working in primary and secondary education institutions from engaging in part-time jobs to provide tutoring services. If our lecturers choose to, or are forced to, discontinue their relationship with us to comply with the relevant regulations, we will need to seek new lecturers to replace them. We cannot assure you we will be able to find replacements at a reasonable cost on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel and experienced senior management could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and competitiveness. Our continuing success is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and experienced senior management. If one or more of our senior management team members are unable or unwilling to continue to work for us, we may not be able to replace them within a reasonable period of time or at all, and our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and we may incur additional expenses in recruiting and training additional personnel. Although our senior management members are subject to certain non-compete restrictions during their employment and for a period of two years thereafter, we cannot assure you that such restrictions will be enforced under PRC law. If any of our senior management joins a competitor or forms a competing business, our business may be severely disrupted. We have no key man insurance with respect to our key personnel that would provide insurance coverage payable to us for loss of their employment due to death or otherwise. Mr. Zhengdong Zhu, our chairman, chief executive officer and co-founder of our business, has played an important role in the growth and development of our business since its inception, and a loss of his services in the future could severely disrupt our business and negatively affect investor confidence in us, which may also cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Mr. Zhengdong Zhu, our chairman, chief executive officer and co-founder of our business, has played an important role in the growth and development of our business since its inception. To date, we have relied heavily on Mr. Zhu’s expertise in, and familiarity with, our business operations, his relationships with our employees, and his reputation in the online education industry. In addition, Mr. Zhu continues to be primarily responsible for formulating our overall business strategies and spearheading the growth of our operations. If Mr. Zhu were unable or unwilling to continue in his present positions, we may not be able to easily replace him and may incur additional expenses to identify and train his successor. In addition, if Mr. Zhu were to join a competitor or form a competing business, it could severely disrupt our business and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although Mr. Zhu is subject to certain non-compete restrictions during his employment with us and for a period of two years thereafter, we cannot assure you that such restrictions will be enforced under PRC law. Moreover, even if the departure of Mr. Zhu from our company would not have any actual impact on our operations and the growth of our business, it could create the perception among investors or the marketplace that his departure could severely damage our business and operations and could negatively affect investor confidence in us, which may cause the market price of our ADS to decline. We do not maintain key man insurance on Mr. Zhu. 7 Table of Contents Mr. Zhengdong Zhu, our chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owns a significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares and, as a result, he has significantly greater influence over us and our corporate actions relative to our public shareholders and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. As of December 31, 2014, our co-founder and chief executive officer, Mr. Zhu, beneficially owned 62,649,481 ordinary shares or approximately 43.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Mr. Zhu has, and may continue to have, significant influence in determining the outcome of most corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He may not act in the best interests of our minority shareholders. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Zhu, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may lose market share and our profitability may be materially and adversely affected, if we fail to compete effectively with our present and future competitors or to adjust effectively to changing market conditions and trends. We face competition from providers of traditional offline education, training and test preparation services, and expect to face increasing competition from existing competitors and new market entrants in the online professional education and test preparation market. The provision of professional education and test preparation courses over the Internet is a relatively recent concept. Although online education is increasingly perceived as an acceptable means of receiving training and instruction, traditional classroom instruction is still generally more widely accepted. We therefore compete with traditional offline educational institutions and training centers in the various disciplines in which we offer courses. As most of our courses are conducted solely online, if the preference for traditional forms of education and training persists or increases, we may not be able to compete effectively with competitors engaging in traditional forms of education and training. In addition, due to low barriers to entry for Internet-based businesses, we expect to face increasing competition from both existing domestic competitors and new entrants to the online education market. We may face increased competition from international competitors that cooperate with local businesses to provide services based on the international competitors’ technology and experience developed in their home markets. Our present and future competitors may have longer operating histories, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. They may be able to devote more resources to the development and promotion of their courses and services, and may be able to react more quickly to changing course participant requirements and demands, deliver competitive services at lower prices or respond to new technologies, trends or user preferences more effectively than we can. They may be able to offer services and products with better performance and prices than ours with the result that their services and products may gain greater market acceptance than ours. They may also offer free promotional services and products in connection with their marketing campaigns or significantly lower the prices for their services and products in order to attract course participants and capture additional market share. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with such present and future competitors or to adjust effectively to changing market conditions and trends. Our failure to compete effectively could erode our market share, result in fewer course participants, or lead to price reductions or increased spending for marketing and promotion of our courses, any of which may materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility in and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonality in revenues primarily due to seasonal changes in course enrollments and the timing of various exams. As the majority of our course participants take non-refundable courses relating to the main professional exams, which are typically held in May, June, September and October (May and September prior to fiscal year 2012), we typically experience higher revenues in the second half of each fiscal year. With respect to our refundable courses, which also primarily relate to the main professional exams, we typically experience higher revenues in the first half of each fiscal year (quarters ended March 31 and September 30 prior to fiscal year 2012). Additionally, as the majority of our course participants for professional continuing education courses take such courses in the second half of the calendar year, we typically experience higher revenues during the quarters ending September 30 and December 31 of each fiscal year. As a result, we historically have generated higher revenue in the second half of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our revenues may be significantly affected by the timing of various exams. For example, the 2012 Elementary Level and Intermediate Level Accounting Professional Qualification Exams, which were originally scheduled to be held in May 2012 were postponed to October 2012. As a result, refundable fees relating to such exams were not recognized as revenue in the fourth fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2012 and were instead recognized in the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The 2015 Elementary Level Accounting Professional Qualification Exams is scheduled to be held in May 2015 again, and the 2015 Intermediate Level Accounting Professional Qualification Exams is scheduled to be held in September 2015. In addition, as the mix of exams and course subjects changes over time, we expect to continue experiencing seasonality based on the timing of various exams. These fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. As our revenues grow, these seasonal fluctuations may become even more pronounced. For more details, see “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Seasonality.” 8 Table of Contents Higher labor costs, inflation and implementation of stricter labor laws in China may adversely affect our business and our profitability. Labor costs in China have risen in recent years as a result of social development and increasing inflation in China. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the consumer price index in China increased by 2.6% and 2.6% in 2012 and 2013, respectively. The average wage level for our employees has also increased in recent years. In addition, we are required by PRC laws and regulations to pay various statutory employee benefits, including pensions, housing fund, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and childbearing insurance to designated government agencies for the benefit of our employees. We expect that our labor costs, including wages and employee benefits, will continue to increase. Unless we are able to pass on these increased labor costs to our course participants by increasing prices for our services or improving the utilization of our teachers and our staff, our profitability and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the PRC government has promulgated new laws and regulations to enhance labor protection in recent years, such as the Labor Contract Law and the Social Insurance Law. As the interpretation and implementation of these new laws and regulations are still evolving, our employment practice may not be at all times be deemed in compliance with the new laws and regulations. If we are subject to penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigation, our business and profitability may be adversely affected. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly and ineffective. We believe that our copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property are essential to our success. We depend to a large extent on our ability to develop and maintain the intellectual property rights relating to our technology and products. We have devoted considerable time and energy to the development and improvement of our websites, our online training platform and our training courses and materials. We rely primarily on copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other contractual restrictions for the protection of the intellectual property used in our business. Nevertheless, these provide only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Our trade secrets may become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Third parties have, in the past, pirated our books and other course materials and may in the future infringe upon or misappropriate our other intellectual property. Infringement upon, or misappropriation of, our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The outcome of such potential litigation may not be in our favor and any success in litigation may not be able to adequately protect our rights. Such litigation may be costly and divert management’s attention away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation would impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Enforcement of judgments in China is uncertain, and even if we are successful in litigation, it may not provide us with an effective remedy. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties or held liable for defamation or negligence to third parties for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked by our websites, for the content of the books and reference materials or marketing materials that we or our lecturers publish or distribute or for information delivered or shared through our services, which could disrupt our business and cause us to incur substantial legal costs, or damage our reputation. We cannot assure you that our services and products do not or will not infringe any intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have in the past, in the ordinary course of business, experienced claims for intellectual property infringement, none of which has had a material effect on our business. We cannot assure you that in the future we will not receive claims of infringement of third parties’ proprietary rights or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement arising from our services or products. We may also become subject to claims that content on our websites or in the books and reference materials or marketing materials that we or our lecturers publish or distribute is protected by third parties’ copyrights or trademark. In addition, as a provider of Internet content and other value-added telecommunications services, we may face liability for defamation, negligence and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials displayed on our websites or delivered or shared through our services. We could also be subject to claims based on content accessible on our websites or through our networks, such as content and materials posted by visitors on message boards, online communities, or emails. By providing hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third-party websites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information distributed by us. 9 Table of Contents Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license to use the infringed or similar technology or content on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could prevent us from producing and offering our services or products or cause us to incur great expense and delay in developing non-infringing services or products. Any of the above events could in turn have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any defamation or negligence claims against us, even if they do not result in liability to us, could cause us to incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. We do not have general liability insurance to cover all potential claims to which we are exposed, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to indemnify us from all liability that may be imposed. Concerns about the security of our transaction systems and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our services and impede our growth. Public concerns over the security and privacy of electronic settlement, online transmittal and communications have to some extent constrained the rapid development and expansion of online transactions. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they will restrict the growth of value-added telecommunications services generally and in particular the use of the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized breach of security were to occur, general usage of value-added telecommunications services could decline, which could reduce our visitor traffic and the number of course participants, and impede our growth. We are continuously vigilant about protecting and improving our cyber security and have not experienced any material cyber attacks on our information technology systems. We cannot assure you, however, that our current security measures will be adequate or sufficient to prevent any theft or misuse of personal data of our course participants. Further, security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information, and could harm our reputation and ability to attract or retain course participants. In addition, we do not have any cyber security insurance coverage for our operations, and any material cyber attack on our information technology systems and our online education websites could expose us to substantial costs and losses. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-controlled telecommunications operators. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. We also rely on China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd., or China Unicom, and China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, to provide us with data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and Internet data centers to host our servers. We do not have access to alternative services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with the telecommunications networks of China Telecom, China Unicom and China Mobile or if they otherwise fail to provide such services. Any unscheduled service interruption could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and result in a decrease in our revenues. Furthermore, we have no control over the costs of services provided by China Telecom, China Unicom and China Mobile. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly, our gross profit and net income could be adversely affected. In addition, if Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, our visitor traffic may decrease, which in turn may harm our revenues. Unexpected network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks and system failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to maintain satisfactory performance, reliability, security or availability of our network infrastructure may cause significant damage to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain course participants. Major risks involving our network infrastructure include: • breakdowns or system failures resulting in a prolonged shutdown of our servers, including failures attributable to power shutdowns, or attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems, which may cause loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; • disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would make it impossible for visitors and course participants to log on to our websites; • damage from fire, flood, power loss and telecommunications failures; and • any infection by or spread of computer virus. 10 Table of Contents Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our websites or deterioration in the quality of access to our websites could reduce course participant satisfaction and result in a reduction in the number of course participants using our services. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our websites and course offerings. In addition, any security breach caused by hackings, which involve attempts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could cause a disruption in our services. Inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss of our course files or litigation and possible liability, as well as damage to our reputation. Furthermore, increases in the volume of traffic on our websites could also strain the capacity of our existing computer systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This would cause a disruption or suspension in our course offerings, which would hurt our brand and reputation, and thus negatively affect our revenue growth. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate increased demand if we anticipate that our systems cannot handle higher volumes of traffic in the future. All of our servers and routers, including backup servers, are currently hosted by third-party service providers in multiple cities in China. We do not maintain any backup servers outside of these cities. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our websites to mirror our online resources. We may continue to grant share options and/or restricted shares under our current or future share incentive plans, or modify the terms of existing share options, which may continue to materially impact our future results of operations or result in dilution to our shareholders. We adopted our Share Incentive Plan in April 2008, or the Prior Plan, under which we had granted options for the purchase of a total of 11,045,500 ordinary shares to selected officers, employees, and lecturers as of September 30, 2014. We adopted in July 2008, and amended and restated in February 2009 and May 2012, respectively, our 2008 Performance Incentive Plan, or the New Plan, under which we reserved a maximum number of 17,944,379 ordinary shares as of September 30, 2014, plus an automatic annual adjustment. Pursuant to the New Plan, we had granted options for the purchase of a total of 3,162,500 ordinary shares, and issued 507,143 restricted shares, to selected directors, and employees as of September 30, 2014. In addition, we have reduced the exercise price of certain options under our Prior and New Plans in the past. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation — Share Options, Restricted Shares and Share Incentive Plan.” In connection with the share options we granted and restricted shares we issued, we incurred $0.1 million, $0.6 million and $0.5 million of share-based compensation expenses in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The expenses associated with options granted and restricted shares issued under the share incentive plans may continue to impact our future results of operations. In addition, if we grant additional options, restricted shares and other equity incentives in the future under our current or future share incentive plans, or modify the terms of existing share options, we could further incur significant share-based compensation expenses, or experience a reduction in our net income. Such actions could also result in dilution to our shareholders. We may need additional capital but may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We do not anticipate that our current expansion plans will require significant capital commitments due to the scalability of our business model. We do, however, expect to spend money on the further development of our “Chinaacc” and “med66.com” brands and other brands in the disciplines for which we offer courses. We do not expect our short-term and long-term cash requirements to be materially different. Nevertheless, we may require additional sources of liquidity in the event of changes in business conditions or other future developments. Factors affecting our sources of liquidity include, for example, mergers and acquisitions, our sales performance, ability to control costs and expenses, and choice of financing arrangements. Any changes in the significant factors affecting our revenues from education services may cause material fluctuations in our cash generated from operations. See “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Overview — Specific Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations” for a description of these significant factors. Changes in working capital, including any significant shortening or lengthening of our accounts receivable cycle or customer prepayment cycles, may also cause fluctuations in our cash generated from operations. If our sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities to meet our cash needs. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in debt service obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that restrict our operations. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of companies mainly providing online professional education and test preparation courses; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; 11 Table of Contents • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in Internet, educational services and professional training services companies; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations through new acquisitions or joint ventures or to successfully realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition or joint venture. We have historically complemented our organic growth through the selective acquisition of complementary businesses, assets, products or technology, or the formation of joint ventures, and we may continue to do so in the future. The identification of suitable acquisition targets or joint venture candidates can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully capitalize on identified opportunities. Consummation of acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new assets and businesses into our own could also be costly and require significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Acquired assets or businesses may not generate the financial results we expect and may even result in us suffering losses. Moreover, completions of acquisitions are typically subject to various approval processes. In addition to possible shareholders’ approval, we may also have to obtain approvals and licenses from the relevant government authorities in the PRC for the acquisitions and to comply with any applicable PRC laws and regulations, which could result in increased costs and delay. Furthermore, acquisitions or joint ventures could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities or the incurrence of debt, the incurrence of significant goodwill, intangible assets and other long-term assets impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business, or other charges, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be disrupted by an outbreak of fire or other calamities and we have limited insurance coverage. We store books and audio and visual products at our premises to support our courses. As such, there is a risk that these products and our premises may be damaged or destroyed by fire and other natural calamities. Any outbreak of fire or similar calamities at our premises may result in the breakdown of our facilities and disruption to our business. In addition, any fire or other calamity at the facilities of our third-party service providers that host our servers could severely disrupt our ability to deliver our courses and other services over our websites. At present, insurance companies in the PRC offer limited coverage for business related risks. As such, we only have a very limited form of insurance for our property covering loss of property arising from theft, fire, lightning, explosives and damage caused by aerial objects. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations, and our coverage may not be adequate to compensate for all losses that may occur, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster could expose us to substantial costs and losses. Our financial performance and prospects could be affected by natural calamities or health epidemics. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural calamities, such as floods and earthquakes or health epidemics such as influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics. Any occurrence of natural calamities or epidemics may result in the postponement or rescheduling of examinations, which may in turn have an adverse impact on our revenues and performance. In addition, if our employees are affected by natural calamities or contagious or virulent diseases, we may fail to provide our courses, materials and services in a timely manner, which will have an adverse impact on our financial performance. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future natural calamities or outbreak of epidemics. Any natural calamities or prolonged recurrence of adverse public health developments in China may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations, financial performance and prospects. 12 Table of Contents We may be exposed to liability for our course content, information or advice we provide to our course participants or customers of our other services. We may be subject to legal claims from our course participants or customers of our other services for losses they suffer if such losses arise from their reliance on content, information or advice that we provide to them. Such claims, with or without merit, may be expensive to defend and may have an adverse impact on our reputation. Further, if such claims are successful, we may be held liable to pay compensation which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2014. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that we maintained, in all material aspects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2014. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could negatively affect the reliability of our financial information and result in the loss of investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure and Restrictions on Our Industry Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations relating to the distribution of Internet content in China. If the PRC government finds that the structure we have adopted for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our websites. Foreign ownership of Internet-based businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates Internet access, the distribution of online information and the conduct of online commerce through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide Internet content distribution services. Specifically, foreign investors in most areas of the PRC (including the areas where we have operations) are not allowed to own more than 50% equity interests in any entity conducting Internet content distribution business. Because we are a Cayman Islands company and we hold the equity interests of our PRC subsidiaries indirectly through China Distance Education Limited, a Hong Kong company, or CDEL Hong Kong, our PRC subsidiaries are treated as foreign invested enterprises under PRC laws and regulations. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into among CDEL Hong Kong, our two PRC subsidiaries, Beijing Champion Distance Education Technology Co., Ltd., or Champion Technology and Beijing Champion Education Technology Co., Ltd. or Champion Education Technology, our affiliated PRC entity, Beijing Champion and its shareholders. Beijing Champion is a PRC limited liability company 79% owned by Zhengdong Zhu, our chairman and chief executive officer and a major shareholder, and 21% owned by Baohong Yin, our co-founder and deputy chairman, both of whom are PRC citizens. Beijing Champion holds a Telecommunications and Information Services Operating License, or ICP license, issued by the Beijing Telecommunications Administration Bureau, a local branch of China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT (formerly known as the Ministry of Information Industry), which allows Beijing Champion to provide Internet content distribution services. Each of Beijing Caikaowang Company Limited, or Caikaowang, Beijing Champion Wangge Education Technology Co., Ltd., or Champion Wangge, and Beijing Zhengbao Yucai Education Technology Co., Ltd., or Zhengbao Yucai, is a subsidiary of Beijing Champion, and holds an ICP license issued by the Beijing Telecommunications Administration Bureau. In addition, Beijing Champion holds a Permit of Internet Cultural Activities issued by the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Culture, which permits Beijing Champion to engage in production and dissemination of musical and entertainment products and animated products through the Internet. The ICP licenses and other approvals held by Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries are essential to the operation of our business. 13 Table of Contents As a result of these contractual arrangements, we control Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries and, accordingly, under U.S. GAAP, we consolidate its operating results in our financial statements. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company — Organizational Structure.” The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure is in violation of law. For example, on July 13, 2006, MIIT issued the Notice on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services, or the MIIT Notice. The MIIT Notice prohibits a domestic telecommunications service provider from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for its illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to the MIIT Notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunications service license or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holder in its provision of value-added telecommunications services. The MIIT Notice also requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In order to comply with the MIIT Notice, we have transferred all domain names and trademarks that are primarily used in connection with our online business activities from Champion Technology to Beijing Champion. Furthermore, if our ownership structure, contractual arrangements and businesses of our company, our PRC subsidiaries and Beijing Champion or its subsidiaries are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or Beijing Champion or its subsidiaries, which business and operating licenses are essential to the operation of our business; • levying fines; • confiscating our income, the income of our PRC subsidiaries or that of Beijing Champion or its subsidiaries; • shutting down our servers or blocking our websites; • discontinuing or restricting our operations or the operations of our PRC subsidiaries or Beijing Champion or its subsidiaries; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, our PRC subsidiaries or Beijing Champion or its subsidiaries may not be able to comply; • requiring us, our PRC subsidiaries or Beijing Champion or its subsidiaries to restructure our relevant ownership structure, operations or contractual arrangements; and • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. If the regulatory authorities take any of the above-mentioned measures against us, we may have to cease our business operations and our reputation will be severely damaged, which in turn will materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements may be subject to national security review under PRC laws and regulations and, thus, be challenged by relevant regulatory authorities. On February 3, 2011, the General Office of the State Council issued the Circular of the General Office of the State Council on the Establishment of Security Review System for Foreign Investors’ Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises (the “Circular on the Establishment of Security Review”), which became effective on March 4, 2011. Among other things, the Circular on the Establishment of Security Review stipulates that the scope of the security review lies in foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic military enterprises, military-related enterprises, enterprises involving sensitive military facilities and other enterprises that impact national defense security; foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic enterprises which may provide foreign investors with de facto control over industries relating to national security, such as important agricultural products, energy and natural resources, infrastructures, transportation services, technologies and major equipment manufacturing. On August 25, 2011, the Ministry of Commerce issued the Circular of the Ministry of Commerce on the Implementation of Security Review System for Foreign Investors’ Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises (the “Circular on the Implementation of Security Review”), which became effective on September 1, 2011. Among other things, the Circular on the Implementation of Security Review further specifies that whether a foreign investors’ acquisition of domestic enterprises falls within the scope of the security review depends on the said transaction’s substantive content and practical influence. Foreign investors shall not circumvent the security review through any arrangements or schemes, including but not limited to trust, lease and/or contractual arrangements. 14 Table of Contents According to our PRC counsel, as our contractual arrangements were established in 2004, the new security review system shall not apply to our contractual arrangements. We cannot guarantee, however, that the Ministry of Commerce will not promulgate additional implementing rules or new rules that will bring our contractual arrangements under the scope of the security review system. Moreover, according to a press conference held by the Ministry of Commerce on September 20, 2011, there are no specific laws or regulations governing contractual arrangements like the ones that we employ, but the Ministry of Commerce together with other authorities would study how to regulate them in the future. Hence, we cannot assure you that our contractual arrangements will not be subject to new regulations that will be issued by relevant regulatory authorities and that such new regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our existing structure. We rely on contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entity and its shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operating control as direct ownership. If any of Beijing Champion or its shareholders fails to perform its or their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to legally enforce such arrangements and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if these arrangements cannot be enforced. PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign ownership in Internet-related content distribution businesses. Because of these restrictions, we conduct our business and derive related revenues through contractual arrangements among CDEL Hong Kong, our PRC subsidiaries, Beijing Champion, and its shareholders, Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin. We have no direct ownership interest in Beijing Champion. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over Beijing Champion as direct ownership. If we were the controlling shareholder of Beijing Champion with direct ownership, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes in the board of directors, which in turn could implement changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Beijing Champion fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and (ii) rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including contract remedies, which we cannot be sure would be effective. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delays or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, these contractual arrangements, including the Technical Support and Consultancy Services Agreement, Equity Pledge Agreements, Exclusive Purchase Rights Agreement, and the related Powers of Attorney, are governed by PRC law, and most of these agreements (excluding the Powers of Attorney) provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration before the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Center, or CIETAC, in Beijing. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes arising from these arrangements would be resolved through arbitration before CIETAC or, in the case of disputes arising from the Powers of Attorney, through litigation in the PRC, in each case in accordance with PRC legal procedures. Furthermore, although CIETAC may award the same type of relief to the prevailing party in an arbitration proceeding as that granted by a court in a civil action, CIETAC does not have the authority to enforce arbitral awards. In the event that we prevail in an arbitration proceeding before CIETAC, we may nevertheless have to apply to a PRC court for the enforcement of the arbitral award relating to the contractual arrangements. The legal environment in the PRC may not be as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. See “—General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China —The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” As a result, although the enforceability of the contractual arrangements may not be affected, the manner of enforcement may be unclear. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements to the fullest extent, we may not be able to exert effective control over our affiliated entities, and our ability to conduct our business would be materially and adversely affected. Pursuant to the Equity Pledge Agreements entered into by Champion Technology and Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin, respectively, Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin agree to pledge their equity interests in Beijing Champion to us to secure Beijing Champion’s performance of its obligations under the relevant contractual arrangements. The equity pledges under these Equity Pledge Agreements have been registered with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC. According to the PRC Property Law and PRC Guarantee Law, the pledgee and the pledgor are prohibited from making an agreement prior to the expiration of the debt performance period to transfer the ownership of the pledged equity to the pledgee when the obligor fails to pay the debt due. However, under the PRC Property Law, when an obligor fails to pay its debt when due, the pledgee may choose to either conclude an agreement with the pledgor to obtain the pledged equity or seek payments from the proceeds of the auction or sell-off of the pledged equity. If Beijing Champion or its shareholders fails to perform its obligations secured by the pledges under the Equity Pledge Agreements, one remedy in the event of default under the agreements is to require the pledgor to sell the equity interests of Beijing Champion in an auction or private sale and remit the proceeds to us, net of related taxes and expenses. Such an auction or private sale may not result in our receipt of the full value of the equity interests in Beijing Champion. 15 Table of Contents The shareholders of Beijing Champion may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Mr. Zhengdong Zhu and Ms. Baohong Yin are husband and wife, and shareholders of Beijing Champion, holding equity interests of 79% and 21%, respectively. The interests of Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin as shareholders of Beijing Champion may differ from our interests. Although both of Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin have given undertakings to act in the best interests of Champion Technology, we cannot assure you that when conflicts arise, these individuals will act in our best interests or that conflicts will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin may breach or cause Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements with us. Currently, we do not have arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest Mr. Zhu or Ms. Yin may encounter in his or her capacity as a record owner and director of Beijing Champion, on the one hand, and as a beneficial owner and director of our company, on the other hand. We rely on Beijing Champion, Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin to comply with the laws of China, which protect contracts, including the contractual arrangements among Beijing Champion, its subsidiaries, its shareholders and us, which provide that Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin should act in the best interest of our company despite being record owners of Beijing Champion. We also rely on Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands, which provide that directors have a duty of care and a duty of loyalty to act honestly, in good faith and in our best interests. However, the legal frameworks of China and the Cayman Islands do not provide guidance on resolving conflicts in the event of a conflict with another corporate governance regime. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes among us, Beijing Champion, Mr. Zhu and Ms. Yin, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries that are important to the operation of our business if any of such entities goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. As part of our contractual arrangements with Beijing Champion, Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries hold certain assets that are important to the operation of our business. If Beijing Champion or any of its subsidiaries goes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Beijing Champion or any of its subsidiaries undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Contractual arrangements among us, our subsidiaries, subsidiary of Beijing Champion and Beijing Champion may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we, subsidiary of Beijing Champion or Beijing Champion owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements and transactions among our subsidiaries, subsidiary of Beijing Champion and Beijing Champion do not reflect an arm’s length price and adjust the income of our subsidiaries, or that of Beijing Champion or its subsidiary by means of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by Beijing Champion, which could in turn increase its respective tax liabilities without reducing tax expenses of our subsidiaries and subsidiary of Beijing Champion. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on Beijing Champion for underpayment of taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if Beijing Champion’s tax liabilities increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. We may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, but such dividends and other distributions are subject to restrictions under PRC law. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. However, our PRC subsidiaries are required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate a portion of their annual after-tax profits, if any, to certain statutory reserves and funds prior to declaring and remitting dividends. For example, our PRC subsidiaries are required to allocate at least 10% of their after-tax profits to statutory reserves each year until such reserves reach 50% of their respective registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserves and funds can be used only for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us. 16 Table of Contents If we lose control over the chops, seals or business licenses or private non-enterprise entity registration certificates of Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our PRC affiliated entity Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries have certain controlling non-tangible assets, such as chops, seals and their business licenses for entering into contracts, dealing with banks or taking certain official actions including registering any change to the composition of the board or senior management team with relevant PRC authorities. Under the PRC law, legal documents for various transactions, including government filings, agreements and contracts, are executed using chops or seals of the signing entity or with the signature of the legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with the relevant industry and commerce administration authorities. We generally execute legal documents by affixing chops or seals, rather than having the designated legal representatives sign the documents. Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries have four types of chops and seals: the entity chop, the contract chop, the legal representative seal and the finance chop. The entity chop is generally used for documents to be submitted to government agencies, such as applications for changing business scope, directors or entity name, and for other legal letters. The contract chop is used for executing leases and commercial contracts, including service contracts with our course participants. The legal representative seal is normally used for issuing checks. The finance chop is generally used for making and collecting payments, including, but not limited to issuing invoices. Beijing Champion’s and its subsidiaries’ business licenses are required to be presented for (i) application, registration and modification of other licenses and qualifications; (ii) opening bank accounts and (iii) purchase of real properties or motor vehicles. Under the internal policies adopted by us for Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries, the use of chops and seals must be approved by the top management before the custodians, normally one of the top ranking managers of these assets, may affix the chops and seals to legal documents for approved uses. The management’s approval is required before the business licenses of Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries can be taken offsite. Similar to the other aspects of Beijing Champion’s and its subsidiaries’ business operations, we control Beijing Champion’s and its subsidiaries’ controlling non-tangible assets through our control over Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries, which in turn is based on our contractual arrangements with Beijing Champion and its shareholders, rather than through direct ownership. As one of the measures to maintain the control over Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries, we appoint the legal representatives and the senior management team for each of Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries. To maintain their physical security, we require all chops, seals, business licenses to be stored in secured locations accessible only to the designated custodians. Our procedures and measures may not be sufficient to prevent all instances of abuse or unauthorized actions. If we fail to maintain effective control over these controlling non-tangible assets for any reason, or if any of these controlling non-tangible assets were misused or misappropriated by the authorized users, whether as a result of labor disputes or other disputes, such persons’ malfeasance or any other reason, these controlling non-tangible assets may be used to (i) transfer assets of the affected entities without our approval, (ii) bind the affected entities with obligations against our interest which we would be forced to fulfill, (iii) obstruct the affected entities’ cash flow and financing, or (iv) prevent the affected entities from completing the required administrative procedures, which will result in the loss of such entities’ valid existence. If the legal representative or person designated with the responsibility to control the non-tangible assets of a local entity of Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries misuses or misappropriates the controlling intangible assets in any manner, or otherwise acts against our instruction in an effort to seize control over such entity, we would need to have a shareholder or board resolution to take legal actions to seek the return of these assets, apply to the relevant authorities for new chops, seals, business licenses or private non-enterprise entity registration certificates, or otherwise seek legal remedies against such person, which may be time-consuming and may not be sufficient or timely to remedy all the harms caused. During any period in which we lose effective control of the activities as a result of such loss of control over or misuse or misappropriation of these non-tangible assets, the business activities of the affected entity may be severely disrupted and we could lose the economic benefits of that aspect of Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries’ business, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business operations, our financial position and results of operations. If any of our affiliated entities fails to obtain and maintain the licenses and approvals required to conduct its business in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The Internet industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet industry. Each of our affiliated entities including Beijing Champion, Caikaowang, Zhengbao Yucai and Champion Wangge is required to obtain and maintain applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide its current services. Our affiliated entities have obtained primary approvals including an ICP license for our 17 websites. These licenses are essential to the operation of our business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. Our affiliated entities, however, may be required to obtain additional licenses, such as an Internet Publishing License for engaging in Internet publishing and an Internet News Information Services Provision Approval for engaging in distribution of news through the Internet. If any of our affiliated entities fails to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses or approvals, its continued business operations in the Internet industry may subject it to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal revenues, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of its operations. Any such disruption in the business operations of our affiliated entities will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to re-register or obtain the necessary license as required by the Administrative Measures Regarding Internet Audio-Video Program Services, or the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, in a timely manner or at all, our equity ownership structure may require significant restructuring, or we may become subject to significant penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. On December 20, 2007, the State Administration of Press Publication Radio Film and Television, or SAPPRFT, and the MIIT issued the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, which became effective on January 31, 2008. Among other things, the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures stipulate that no entities or individuals may provide Internet audio-video program services without a License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network issued by SAPPRFT or its local counterparts or completing the relevant registration with SAPPRFT or its local counterparts and only entities wholly owned or controlled by the PRC government may engage in the production, editing, integration or consolidation, and transfer to the public through the Internet, of audio-video programs, and the provision of audio-video program uploading and transmission services. On February 3, 2008, SAPPRFT and MIIT jointly held a press conference in response to inquiries related to the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, during which SAPPRFT and MIIT officials indicated that providers of audio-video program services established prior to the promulgation date of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures that do not have any regulatory non-compliance records can re-register with the relevant government authorities to continue their current business operations. After the conference, the two authorities published a press release that confirms the above guidelines. On September 15, 2009, SAPPRFT promulgated a notice regarding the issues of management of Internet Audio-Video Program Services License, which provides that the application for re-registration of the Internet Audio-Video Program Services License shall be closed on December 20, 2009. Due to uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and application of the Internet Audio-Video Program Measures, each year, we and our PRC counsel consult the Beijing Branch of SAPPRFT, or Beijing SAPPRFT, which is the competent authority in Beijing to grant the License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network, regarding whether online education services providers like us that provide audio-video educational courses and programs through the Internet only to enrolled course participants should apply for the said license. Prior to 2011, the officials in Beijing SAPPRFT consistently conveyed to us that we were not required to apply for the said license as we only transmit audio-video educational courses and programs through the Internet to enrolled course participants instead of the general public. However, in January 2011, a joint administrative enforcement commission of the Beijing government (including Beijing SAPPRFT) issued a warning to us and fined us RMB6,000 ($897) for providing audio-video educational courses without obtaining the License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs through Information Network. Thereafter, we submitted our application for such license to Beijing SAPPRFT. On August 1, 2011, Beijing SAPPRFT sent us an official response stating that it determined that we are not required to obtain the License for Disseminating Audio-Video Programs because our numerous education-related activities do not fall under the “Internet audio-visual services program.” We cannot guarantee that Beijing SAPPRFT will not change its position or that the reply will not be challenged by higher authorities in China, or that we will not be asked to obtain the said license again. If the regulatory authorities take any such action against us, it may materially and adversely affect our business. Moreover, if we are asked to re-register with relevant authorities or obtain the required license, we cannot assure you that our future application(s) will be approved by relevant authorities in a timely manner or at all. If we are subsequently required to and are unable to re-register or obtain the necessary license timely, or at all, due to reasons beyond our control, our equity ownership structure may require significant restructuring, or we may become subject to significant penalties, fines, legal sanctions or an order to suspend our use of audio-video content, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information, audio-video programs and other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has prohibited the distribution of information through the Internet that it deems in violation of PRC laws and regulations. Under regulations promulgated by the State Council, MIIT, the State Press and Publication Administration and the Ministry of Culture, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that, among other things: • opposes the fundamental principles of the PRC constitution; • compromises state security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power or damages national unity; • harms the dignity or interests of the state; 18 Table of Contents • incites ethnic hatred or racial discrimination or damages inter-ethnic unity; • sabotages China’s religious policy or propagates heretical teachings or feudal superstition; • disseminates rumors, disturbs social order or disrupts social stability; • propagates obscenity, pornography, gambling, violence, murder, fear or abets the commission of crimes; • insults or slanders a third party or infringes upon the lawful rights of a third party; and • includes other content prohibited by laws or regulations. If any of our Internet content were deemed by the PRC government to violate any of the above content restrictions, we would not be able to continue to display such content and could become subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our clients or affiliates or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability to us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our websites in China. General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China PRC economic, political and social conditions, as well as changes in any government policies, laws and regulations, could adversely affect the overall economy in China or the prospects of the education market, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and certain transactions we may undertake are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past two to three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Demand for our products and services depends, in large part, on economic conditions in China. Any slowdown in China’s economic growth may cause our potential course participants to delay or cancel their plans to participate in our education courses, which in turn could reduce our net revenues. Although the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the late 1970s, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling the incurrence and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Changes in any of these policies, laws and regulations could adversely affect the overall economy in China or the prospects of the education market, which could harm our business. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage foreign investment and sustainable economic growth and to guide the allocation of financial and other resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. As the PRC economy is increasingly intricately linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent financial services and economic crises of these economies. The various economic and policy measures the PRC government adopts to forestall economic downturns or shore up the PRC economy may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not repeal or alter these measures or introduce new measures that will have a negative effect on us. 19 Table of Contents China’s social and political conditions are also not as stable as those of the United States and other developed countries. Any sudden changes to China’s political system or the occurrence of widespread social unrest could have negative effects on our business and results of operations. In addition, China has tumultuous relations with some of its neighbors and a significant further deterioration in such relations could have negative effects on the PRC economy and lead to changes in governmental policies that would be adverse to our business interests. Evolution of and uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could adversely impact our corporate structure and business and limit the legal protections available to you and us. Unlike common law systems, the PRC legal system is based on written statutes and decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, Champion Technology and Champion Education Technology, are wholly foreign-owned enterprises, and both are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. Our PRC affiliated entities, Beijing Champion, Caikaowang, Champion Wangge, Beijing Haidian District Champion Training School, or Champion Training School, and Zhengbao Yucai, are subject to laws and regulations governing the formation and conduct of domestic PRC companies. Relevant PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, the Ministry of Commerce published the draft Foreign Investment Law for public comments on January 19, 2015, with the intention of reducing regulation of foreign investment in general while also attempting to regulate new types of foreign investment in China, including those utilizing variable interest entity structure. We utilize variable interest entities in our group structure and may be subject to stricter regulation if the Foreign Investment Law comes into effect. In addition, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than under more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts and intellectual property rights, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with respect to the education sector, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could adversely impact our corporate structure and business and limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars, and appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi (which is the currency in which substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated) relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollars terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. The Renminbi’s exchange rate with the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to limit fluctuations in Renminbi exchange rate and achieve certain exchange rate targets, and through such intervention kept the U.S. dollar-Renminbi exchange rate relatively stable within a very narrow range against the U.S. dollar (remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high) for almost two years from July 2008. On June 20, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that the PRC government would further reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. On March 15, 2014, the People’s Bank of China announced that it further expanded the daily RMB against U.S. dollar trading band of the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 1% to 2% as of March 17, 2014, to allow Renminbi to move more freely and better reflect market supply and demand. However, it remains unclear how this announcement might be implemented. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant change in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. 20 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to our PRC subsidiary, Champion Technology and affiliated entities, Beijing Champion and Zhengbao Yucai, could materially increase our tax liabilities. Prior to January 1, 2008, under applicable PRC tax laws, companies established in China were generally subject to an enterprise income tax, or EIT, at the statutory rate of 33%. However, certain types of foreign-invested enterprises and high and new technology enterprises located in certain specified high-tech zones were entitled to preferential tax treatments. Under the then applicable PRC tax laws, each of our two PRC subsidiaries, Champion Technology and Champion Education Technology, had been granted preferential EIT treatment based on their status as foreign-invested enterprises and their status as high and new technology enterprises operating in Beijing Zhongguancun Science Park. Our PRC affiliated entity, Beijing Champion had been granted preferential EIT treatment based on its status as a high and new technology enterprise operating in the Zhongguancun Science Park. In March 2007, the National People’s Congress enacted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and in December 2007, the State Council promulgated the implementation rules of the EIT Law, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law significantly curtails tax incentives granted to foreign-invested enterprises under the previous tax law. The EIT Law, however, (i) reduces the statutory rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, subject to certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) introduces new tax incentives, subject to various qualification criteria. Under the phase-out rules, enterprises established before the promulgation date of the EIT Law and which were granted preferential EIT treatment under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatments until their expiration. Accordingly, Champion Technology, an enterprise established before the promulgation date of the EIT Law, continued to enjoy its preferential treatment under the phase-out rules, whereas Champion Education Technology, established after the promulgation date, was no longer entitled to its preferential treatment as of January 1, 2008. The EIT Law and its implementing rules permit qualified “high and new technology enterprises” to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate. The qualification criteria are significantly higher than those prescribed by the old tax rules under which we had been granted preferential treatment. Champion Education Technology no longer qualified for the 15% reduced tax rate under the new criteria and became subject to the statutory 25% EIT rate as of January 1, 2008. Beijing Champion and Champion Technology obtained the qualification certificates of high and new technology enterprises under the EIT Law on December 24, 2008 with a valid period of three years starting from January 1, 2008 and renewed the certificates in 2011 for another three years. Beijing Champion and Champion Technology have successfully obtained renewed qualification certificates of high and new technology enterprises upon the expiration of such certificates in 2014. As a result, Beijing Champion was and will be subject to the tax rate of 15% from 2008 through 2016. Champion Technology was subject to the tax rate of 7.5% for 2008 through 2009 and was and will be subject to 15% from 2010 through 2016. In addition, Zhengbao Yucai obtained the qualification certificate of high and new technology enterprise under the EIT Law on November 12, 2012 with a valid period of three years starting from January 1, 2012. As a result, Zhengbao Yucai was subject to the tax rate of 15% from 2012 through 2014. The continued qualification of a high and new technology enterprise will be subject to annual evaluation and a three-year review by the relevant government authority in China. The PRC tax policies, interpretations, and practices regarding the overlap, phase-out, and transition of preferential treatments is subject to continuous change and uncertainty and we cannot assure you that Beijing Champion, Champion Technology and Zhengbao Yucai will continue to qualify as high and new technology enterprises under the EIT Law, enjoy the preferential treatments under the phase-out rules, not encounter any challenges regarding past application for such treatments, or that the local tax authorities will not, in the future, change their position and revoke any of our past preferential tax treatments. The discontinuation of any of our preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments currently enjoyed by our PRC subsidiary, Champion Technology and affiliated entities, Beijing Champion and Zhengbao Yucai, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Under China’s EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% PRC enterprise income tax rate on its global income. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. A circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation ( the “SAT”), or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009 provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management bodies” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function are mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) at least half of the enterprise’s directors with voting right or senior management reside in the PRC. In addition, the SAT issued the Announcement of the SAT on Printing and Distributing the Administrative Measures for Oversea Registered Chinese-capital Controlled Tax Resident Enterprises (Trial), the Announcement 45, on July 27, 2011, effective September 1, 2011, providing more guidance on the implementation of Circular 82. Announcement 45 clarifies matters including residence status determination, post-determination administration and competent tax authorities. Our management is currently based in China and expected to remain in China. However, Circular 82 and Announcement 45 only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us. In the absence of detailed implementing regulations or other guidance determining that offshore companies controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us are PRC resident enterprises, we do not currently consider CDEL Cayman to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, the SAT may take the view that the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 and Announcement 45 reflect general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises. Or additional implementing regulations or guidance may be issued determining that CDEL Cayman is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. The “resident enterprise” rule could be applied to CDEL Hong Kong as our intermediate holding company, Practice Enterprises Network China International Links Limited, or PENCIL, and DL Education Service, LLC, or DL Education with similar consequences. If the PRC tax authorities determine that CDEL Cayman, CDEL Hong Kong, PENCIL and DL Education are “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, a dividend income between qualified resident enterprises is a “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that dividends paid to CDEL Cayman from our PRC subsidiaries through CDEL Hong Kong would qualify as “tax-exempt income” and will not be subject to withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and gains derived by our non-PRC enterprise shareholders from transferring our shares or ADSs are also subject to 10% withholding tax, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. This could have the effect of increasing our and our shareholders’ effective income tax rates and could also have an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, and may require us to deduct withholding tax amounts from any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. In addition to the uncertainty in how the new “resident enterprise” classification could apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2014 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain certain treaty benefits on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries through our Hong Kong Subsidiary. Under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends generated from retained earnings after January 1, 2008 from a PRC company and distributed to a foreign parent company are subject to a withholding tax rate of 10% unless the foreign parent’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a preferential withholding arrangement. Pursuant to the Arrangement between Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income, or the Hong Kong Tax Treaty, which became effective on December 8, 2006, a company incorporated in Hong Kong, such as CDEL Hong Kong, will be subject to withholding income tax at a rate of 5% on dividends it receives from its PRC subsidiaries if it holds a 25% or more interest in those particular PRC subsidiaries, or 10% if it holds less than a 25% interest in those subsidiaries. However, the SAT promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-the-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. On June 29, 2012, the SAT further issued the Announcement of the SAT regarding Recognition of “Beneficial Owner” under Tax Treaties, or Announcement 30, which provides that a comprehensive analysis should be made when determining the beneficial owner status based on various factors supported by various types of documents including the articles of association, financial statements, records of cash movements, board meeting minutes, board resolutions, staffing and materials, relevant expenditures, functions and risk assumption as well as relevant contracts and other information. As a result, although our two PRC subsidiaries, Champion Education Technology and Champion Technology, are currently wholly owned by our Hong Kong subsidiary, CDEL Hong Kong, we cannot assure you that we would be entitled to the tax treaty benefits and enjoy the favorable 5% rate applicable under the Hong Kong Tax Treaty on dividends. If CDEL Hong Kong cannot be recognized as the beneficial owner of the dividends to be paid by Champion Education Technology and Champion Technology to us, such dividends will be subject to a normal withholding tax of 10% as provided by the EIT Law and its implementing rules. If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval was required in connection with our initial public offering, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006, and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rule, among other things, has certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Jingtian & Gongcheng, that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of SPVs like us, CSRC’s approval was not required for our initial public offering given the fact that our current corporate structure was established before the new regulation became effective. However, there remains some uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating activities in the PRC, delay or restrict capital contribution or shareholder loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Complex procedures under PRC regulations for some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities, such as ours, more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign entity takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In addition, national security review rules issued by the PRC governmental authorities in 2011 require acquisitions by foreign investors of domestic companies engaged in military-related or certain other industries that are crucial to national security to be subject to prior security review. Moreover, the Anti-Monopoly Law requires that the Ministry of Commerce shall be notified in advance of any concentration of undertaking if certain thresholds are triggered. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule, the Anti-Monopoly Law, the security review rules, and other PRC regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 23 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may restrict our ability to make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and PRC affiliated entities or to make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC affiliated entities. From time to time, we plan to make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, whether currently in existence or to be formed in the future, and to our PRC affiliated entities, whether currently in existence or to be formed in the future, or make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans we make to our PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Under applicable PRC law, the government authorities must approve a foreign-invested enterprise’s registered capital amount, which represents the total amount of capital contributions made by the shareholders that have been registered with the registration authorities. In addition, the authorities must also approve the foreign-invested enterprise’s total investment, which represents the total statutory capitalization of the company, equal to the company’s registered capital plus the amount of loans it is permitted to borrow under the law. The ratio of registered capital to total investment cannot be lower than the minimum statutory requirement and the excess of the total investment over the registered capital represents the maximum amount of borrowings that a foreign invested enterprise is permitted to have under PRC law. If we were to make loans to our PRC subsidiaries, we would have to apply to the relevant government authorities for an increase in their permitted total investment amounts. The various applications could be time-consuming and their outcomes may be uncertain. Furthermore, even if we make loans to our PRC subsidiaries that do not exceed their current maximum amount of borrowings, we will have to register each loan with SAFE or its local counterpart for the issuance of a registration certificate of foreign debts. In practice, it could be time-consuming to complete such SAFE registration process. Concurrently with the loans, we might have to make capital contributions to these subsidiaries to maintain the statutory minimum registered capital and total investment ratio, and such capital contributions involve uncertainties of their own. Further, SAFE promulgated another circular (known as Circular 142) in August 2008 with respect to the administration of conversion of foreign exchange capital contributions of a foreign invested enterprise. The circular clarifies that Renminbi converted from foreign exchange capital contributions can only be used for the activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investments unless otherwise permitted. In addition, SAFE promulgated a circular on November 9, 2010, or Circular 59, which requires the authenticity of settlement of the fund from offshore offerings to be closely examined and such fund to be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. Furthermore, it has come to our attention that SAFE issued an internal guideline to its local counterparts, referred to as Circular 45, in November 2011. Circular 45 has never been formally announced by SAFE to the public or posted on SAFE’s website. Based on the version of Circular 45 made publicly available by certain local governmental authorities on their websites, we understand that Circular 45 requires SAFE’s local counterparts to strengthen the control imposed by Circulars 142 and 59 over the conversion of a foreign-invested company’s capital contributed in foreign currency into RMB. Circular 45 stipulates that a foreign-invested company’s RMB funds, if converted from such company’s capital contributed in foreign currency, may not be used by such company to (i) extend loans (in the form of entrusted loans), (ii) repay borrowings between enterprises, or (iii) repay bank loans it has obtained and on-lent to third parties. Because our PRC affiliated entities are domestic PRC entities, we are not likely to finance their activities by means of direct capital contributions due to regulatory issues relating to foreign investment in the online education industry, as well as the licensing and other regulatory issues discussed in “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulations.” Any loans we make to any of our PRC affiliated entities, which is treated as a PRC domestic company rather than a foreign-invested enterprise under PRC law, are also subject to various PRC regulations and approvals. Under applicable PRC regulations, international commercial loans to PRC domestic companies are subject to various government approvals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or PRC affiliated entities or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 24 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to investments in offshore companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC-resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits. SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Offshore Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, on July 4, 2014. SAFE Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’ legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” SAFE Circular 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC shareholder holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiary. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of foreign exchange controls. We may not be aware of the identities of all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents. We do not have control over our beneficial owners and cannot assure you that all of our PRC-resident beneficial owners will comply with SAFE Circular 37 and subsequent implementation rules. The failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to register or amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to SAFE Circular 37 and subsequent implementation rules, or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Circular 37 and subsequent implementation rules, may subject such beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions. Furthermore, since SAFE Circular 37 was recently promulgated and it is unclear how this regulation, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant PRC government authorities, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. Failure to register or comply with relevant requirements may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries and limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company. These risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with Chinese regulations relating to employee share options granted by offshore listed companies to Chinese citizens. Under applicable PRC regulations, Chinese citizens who are granted share options by an offshore listed company are required, through a Chinese agent, which can be a Chinese branch or representative of the offshore listed company, a Chinese institution which has controlling relationship or actual control relationship with the offshore listed company or a Chinese institution qualified for asset custody business, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures, including applications for foreign exchange payment quotas and opening special bank accounts. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted share options are subject to such PRC regulations. If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other Chinese government authorities, which may prevent us from further granting options under our share incentive plans to our employees. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company — Business overview — Regulations — SAFE Regulations on Employee Share Options.” Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain financing. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Restrictions on currency exchange imposed by the PRC government may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Under current PRC regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in their respective current account bank accounts, subject to a cap set by SAFE or its local counterpart, for use in payment of international current account transactions. However, conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. 25 Table of Contents Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated entities to obtain foreign currencies, limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or our directors or executive officers. In addition, you may find it difficult or impossible to bring an action against us or our directors or executive officers in a PRC court if you believe your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities law or otherwise. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court orders. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the “PCAOB”, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act against the Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms (including our auditor) and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the CSRC. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditor or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the US Federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. 26 Table of Contents Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act and possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Public shareholders of China-based, U.S.-listed companies and other market participants may no longer have access to a wide array of corporate records of such listed companies’ PRC entities filed with industry and commerce administration authorities in China. Loss of, or limit in, the access to such information may adversely affect overall investor confidence in China-based, U.S.-listed companies’ reported results or other disclosures, including those of our company, and may cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. All PRC corporate entities, including Champion Technology, Champion Education Technology, Beijing Champion and its subsidiaries, maintain corporate records and filings with industry and commerce administration authorities in the cities where such PRC entities are registered. Information contained in such corporate records and filings includes, among others, business address, registered capital, business scope, articles of association, equity interest holders, legal representative, changes to the above information, annual financial reports, matters relating to termination or dissolution and information relating to penalties imposed. There have been regulations promulgated by various government authorities in China that govern the public access to corporate records and filings. Under the Measures for Accessing Corporate Records and Filings promulgated on December 16, 1996 by the State Administration of Industry and Commerce (the “SAIC”), or the SAIC measures, corporate records such as registration records, registration documents submitted for approval, records relating to the change of the enterprise, records relating to the cancellation or revocation of the enterprise and records relating to the supervision and inspection of the enterprise can be inspected by the public through computers without restrictions, while a company’s book records and filings can only be inspected by authorized government officials or lawyers involved in pending litigation relating to such company and with court-issued proof of such litigation. In practice, local industry and commerce administration authorities in different cities have adopted various regional regulations which impose more stringent restrictions than the SAIC measures by restricting the scope of information that the public can freely access. Many local industry and commerce administration authorities only allow unrestricted public access to such basic corporate information as name, legal representative, registered capital and business scope of a company. Under these local regulations, access to the other corporate records and filings (many of which are not subject to restriction on access under the SAIC measures) is only granted to authorized government officials or lawyers involved in pending litigation relating to such company and with court-issued proof of such litigation. However, neither the SAIC nor the local industry and commerce administration authorities were reported to have strictly implemented the restrictions under either the SAIC measures or the various regional regulations before early 2012. As a result, before early 2012, the public, including public shareholders of China-based, U.S.-listed companies and other market participants, such as lawyers and research firms, were reported to be able to access all or most corporate records and filings of these listed companies’ PRC entities maintained with the industry and commerce administration authorities. Such records and filings were reported to have formed important components of researches on certain China-based, U.S.-listed companies, which researches claimed to have uncovered wrongdoings and fraud committed by these companies on the basis of (i) the disparities found between the listed companies’ reported results and their PRC entities’ financial reports filed with industry and commerce administration authorities, and (ii) information on material changes of the PRC entities, such as transfers of equity interests of significant PRC subsidiaries, that were filed with the industry and commerce administration authorities but not properly disclosed by such listed companies as required under the U.S. securities law and the SEC’s disclosure requirements. The significant disparities found between (i) certain China-based, U.S.-listed companies’ reported results and other disclosure and (ii) their PRC entities’ financial reports and other records filed with industry and commerce administration authorities were also reported to have formed the basis of several class actions against such listed companies in the U.S. It was reported that, since the first half of 2012, local industry and commerce administration authorities in a number of cities had started strictly implementing the above restrictions and had significantly curtailed public access to corporate records and filings. There have also been reports that only the limited scope of basic corporate records and filings are still accessible by the public, and much of the previously publicly accessible information, such as financial reports and changes to equity interests, now can only be accessed by the parties specified in, and in strict accordance with the restrictions under, the various regional regulations. Such reported limitation on the public access to corporate records and filings and the resulting concerns over the loss of, or limit in, an otherwise available source of information to verify and evaluate the soundness of China-based U.S.-listed companies’ business operations in China may have a significant adverse effect on the overall investor confidence in China-based, U.S.-listed companies’ reported results or other disclosures, including those of our company, and may cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. 27 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our ADSs Stock prices of companies with business operations primarily in China have fluctuated widely in recent years, and the trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. For example, if one or more of the industry analysts or ratings agencies who cover us downgrades us or our ADSs, or publishes unfavorable research about us, the price of our ADSs may decline. If one or more of these analysts or agencies cease to cover our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price of our ADSs or trading volume to decline. In addition, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other China-based, US-listed education companies may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs. In recent years, a number of PRC companies have listed their securities, or are in the process of preparing for listing their securities, on U.S. stock markets. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines following their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. These broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues due to different reasons, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements, acquisitions, cessation of business lines or legal dispute, declaration of dividends and fluctuations in market prices for our services could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future again. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action lawsuit, it could divert the attention of senior management, and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. As of September 30, 2014, there were 142,752,873 ordinary shares outstanding. All of our ADSs are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act unless held by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Subject to the applicable restrictions and limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, all of our shares outstanding are eligible for sale in the public market. In addition, as of September 30, 2014, there were 612,200 outstanding options to purchase ordinary shares, out of which 524,824 outstanding options have vested under their current terms. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our ADS could decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our second amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, the following: • provisions that restrict the ability of our shareholders to call meetings and to propose special matters for consideration at shareholder meetings; • provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs; and • provisions that provide for a staggered board, whereby our board will be divided into three classes of directors, with directors in each class serving staggered three-year terms. With a staggered board, at least two annual shareholders’ meetings, instead of one, would generally be required to effect a change in a majority of the board. A staggered board tends to discourage proxy contests for the election of directors and purchases of a substantial block of shares because a staggered board operates to prevent a third party from obtaining control of our board in a relatively short period of time. See “Item 6.C. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Board Practices.” These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. 28 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of ADSs must be exercised in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement, and the procedures established by the depositary. The process of voting through the depositary may involve delays that limit the time available to you to consider proposed shareholders’ actions and also may restrict your ability to subsequently revise your voting instructions. A holder of ADSs may exercise its voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. When the depositary receives from us notice of any shareholders meeting, it will distribute the information in the meeting notice and any proxy solicitation materials to you. The depositary will determine the record date for distributing these materials, and only ADS holders registered with the depositary on that record date will, subject to applicable laws, be entitled to instruct the depositary to vote the underlying ordinary shares. The depositary will also determine and inform you of the manner for you to give your voting instructions, including instructions to give discretionary proxies to a person designated by us. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting for you to withdraw your ordinary shares and cast your vote with respect to any proposed resolution, as a holder of our ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send materials relating to the meeting and voting instruction forms to you, or to carry out your voting instructions, in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. The additional time required for the depositary to receive from us and distribute to you meeting notices and materials, and for you to give voting instructions to the depositary with respect to the underlying ordinary shares, will result in your having less time to consider meeting notices and materials than holders of ordinary shares who receive such notices and materials directly from us and who vote their ordinary shares directly. If you have given your voting instructions to the depositary and subsequently decide to change those instructions, you may not be able to do so in time for the depositary to vote in accordance with your revised instructions. The depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. In the event that voting on any resolution or matter is conducted on a show of hands basis in accordance with our second amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association, the depositary will refrain from voting and the voting instructions (or the deemed voting instructions, as set out in the deposit agreement) received by the depositary from you will lapse. The depositary will have no obligation to demand voting on a poll basis with respect to any resolution and will have no liability to any holder of ADS for not having demanded voting on a poll basis. In addition, the depositary will, if so requested in writing by us, represent all the ordinary shares (whether or not voting instructions have been received in respect of such ordinary shares from you as of the record date) for the purpose of establishing quorum at a meeting of shareholders. Except in limited circumstances, the depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, do not timely vote, or voting instructions received fail to specify the manner in which the depositary is to vote ordinary shares underlying your ADSs unless we notify the depositary that: • we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular question; or • we think the subject of the particular question would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that, absent the situations described above, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature and composition of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets (the “asset test”) or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. 29 Table of Contents Based on assumptions as to our projections of the value of our outstanding ADSs and ordinary shares and our expected use of the proceeds from the follow-on public offering and the other cash that we will hold and generate in the ordinary course of our business, we believe we were not a PFIC for the taxable year ended September 30, 2014. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC in any future taxable year as PFIC status is tested each taxable year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income in such taxable year. In particular, in determining the average percentage value of our gross assets, the aggregate value of our assets will generally be deemed to be equal to our market capitalization (the sum of the aggregate value of our outstanding equity) plus our liabilities. Therefore, a drop in the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and associated decrease in the value of our goodwill would cause a reduction in the value of our non-passive assets for purposes of the asset test. Accordingly, we would likely become a PFIC if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. We currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, which could affect our PFIC status in future years. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares, and you are a U.S. taxpayer, you would generally be subject to additional taxes and interest charges on certain “excess” distributions we make and on any gain recognized on the disposition or deemed disposition of your ADS or ordinary shares in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in the year of disposition or distribution. Moreover, if we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ordinary shares, certain non-corporate U.S. shareholders would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution received from us in that year or in the following year. Finally, you would also be subject to special U.S. tax reporting requirements. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay holders of our ADSs the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holder of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares such holder’s ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if it decides that it is unlawful to make such distribution. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consisted of securities that required registration under the Securities Act but that were not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or unreasonable from a regulatory perspective for us to make them available to such holders. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of ADSs. ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or government body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 30 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. federal or state laws, holders of ADSs may have less protection of shareholder rights than they would under U.S. federal or state laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by our second amended and restated memorandum of association and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States. In addition, some jurisdictions, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company, and Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Nearly all of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult to enforce in U.S. court judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are residents of countries other than the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 