Item 1A. Risk Factors. INVESTING IN OUR COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY MATERIALIZES, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD SUFFER. YOU SHOULD READ THE SECTION ENTITLED “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” IN PART I FOR A DISCUSSION OF WHAT TYPES OF STATEMENTS ARE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, AS WELL AS THE RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS 1. We have had no operating history in the last three years nor any revenues or earnings from operations and we are insolvent. We have no assets or financial resources. We will in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in us incurring a net operating loss that will increase continuously until we can consummate a business combination with a profitable business opportunity. There is no assurance that we can identify such a business opportunity and consummate such a business combination. Our auditor’s going concern opinion and the notation in the financial statements indicate that we do not have significant cash or other material assets and that we are relying on advances from stockholders, officers and directors to meet our limited operating expenses. We are insolvent in that we are unable to pay our debts in the ordinary course of business as they become due. 2. Our proposed plan of operation is speculative. The success of our proposed plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting such criteria. In the event we complete a business combination, of which there can be no assurance, the success of our operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm and numerous other factors beyond our control. 3. We face intense competition for business opportunities and combinations. We are and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with, joint ventures with, and acquisitions of, small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be our desirable target candidates. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we have and, consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, we will also compete in seeking merger or acquisition candidates with numerous other small public companies. 4. We have no agreements for a business combination or other transaction and have established no standards for a business combination. We have no arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a merger with, joint venture with, or acquisition of, a private or public entity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for our evaluation. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us. We have not established a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria which we will require a target business opportunity to have achieved, and without which we would not consider a business combination in any form with such business opportunity. Accordingly, we may enter into a business combination with a business opportunity having no significant operating his tory, losses, limited potential or no potential for earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. 5. Future success is highly dependent on the ability of management to locate and attract a suitable acquisition. The nature of our operations is highly speculative and there is a consequent risk of loss of your investment. The success of our plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting that criterion. In the event we complete a business combination, the success of our operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm and numerous other factors beyond our control. 6. Our Director who is our sole Officer has a conflict of interest in that he is an officer and director of other companies which will prevent him from devoting full-time to our operations which may affect our operations. Our Director, who is our sole Officer, Robert Wilson, has a conflict of interest in that he is an officer and director of other companies. Mr. Wilson’s other activities will prevent him from devoting full-time to our operations. This will slow our operations and may reduce our financial results because of the slow down in operations. Mr. Wilson does not expect to be able to devote more forty (40) hours per month to our operation. 7. The reporting requirements under federal securities law may delay or prevent us from making certain acquisitions. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “1934 Act”), require companies subject thereto to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the company acquired, covering one, two, or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare such statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by the Company. Acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may not be appropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the 1934 Act are applicable. In addition to the audited financial statements, in the filing of the Form 8-K that we file to report an event that causes us to cease being a shell company, we will be required to include that information that is normally reported by a company in a Form 10. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare and disclose such information may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by the Company. 8. A merger, acquisition, or joint venture would most likely be exclusive, resulting in a lack of diversification. Management anticipates that it may be able to participate in only one potential business venture because a business partner might require exclusivity. This lack of diversification should be considered a substantial risk to our shareholders because it will not permit us to offset potential losses from one venture against gains from another. 9. Our present management most likely will not remain after we complete a business combination. A business combination involving the issuance of our Common Stock will, in all likelihood, result in shareholders of a private company obtaining a controlling interest in us. Any such business combination may require our management to sell or transfer all or a portion of the Company’s Common Stock held by them, and/or resign as members of the Board of Directors. The resulting change in our control could result in removal of one or more present officers and directors and a corresponding reduction in or elimination of their participation in our future affairs. 10. The company intends to issue more shares in a merger or acquisition, which will result in substantial dilution. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 100,000,000 shares of common stock and a maximum of 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Any merger or acquisition effected by us may result in the issuance of additional securities without stockholders approval and may result in substantial dilution the percentage of our common stock held by our then existing stockholders. Moreover, the common stock issued in any such merger or acquisition transaction may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arm’s-length basis by our management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of common stock held by our then existing stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without stockholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of common or preferred stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of our s tockholders will occur and the rights of the holders of common stock might be materially and adversely affected. 11. As a shell company, we face substantial additional adverse business and legal consequences. We may enter into a business combination with an entity that desires to establish a public trading market for its shares. A business opportunity may attempt to avoid what it deems to be adverse consequences of undertaking its own public offering by seeking a business combination with us. Such consequences may include, but are not limited to, time delays of the registration process, significant expenses to be incurred in such an offering, loss of voting control to public shareholders and the inability or unwillingness to comply with various federal and state laws enacted for the protection of investors. On June 29, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted final rules amending the Form S-8 and the Form 8-K for shell companies like us. The amendments expand the definition of a shell company to be broader than a company with no or nominal operations/assets or assets consisting of cash and cash equivalents. The amendments prohibit the use of a Form S-8 (a form used by a corporation to register securities issued to an employee, director, officer, consultant or advisor), under certain circumstances, and revise the Form 8-K to require a shell company to include current Form 10 information, including audited financial statements, in the filing on Form 8-K that the shell company files to report the acquisition of the business opportunity. This initial filing must be made within four days of the acquisition. The Form 8-K filing may be reviewed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the prospects of certain disclosures or review or the lack of th e ability to issue securities using a Form S-8 may delay the consummation of a business combination because of the target entity’s inability to comply with various federal and state laws enacted for the protection of investors or the unwillingness to assume the significant costs of compliance. 12. The requirement of audited financial statements may disqualify business opportunities. Our management believes that any potential business opportunity must provide audited financial statements for review, for the protection of all parties to the business combination. One or more attractive business opportunities may choose to forego the possibility of a business combination with us, rather than incur the expenses associated with preparing audited financial statements. 13. Our sole officer and director and the principal shareholders and will be able to approve all corporate actions without minority shareholder consent and will control our Company. Our principal shareholder, IACE Investments One, Inc. currently owns approximately 51.08% of our Common Stock. It will have significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, but not requiring the approval of the minority shareholders. 14. Our Common Stock may never be widely traded and you may have no ability to sell the shares. While our stock has a trading symbol to facilitate trades on the OTC “Pink Sheets,” there is no significant public trading market for our shares of Common Stock. And there can be no assurance that a liquid market for our Common Stock will be established or that, if established, a market will be sustained. Therefore, if you purchase our Common Stock you may be unable to sell the shares. Accordingly, you should be able to bear the financial risk of losing your entire investment. Only market makers can apply to quote securities. Market makers who desire to initiate quotations in the OTC Bulletin Board system must complete an application (Form 211) (unless an exemption is applicable) and by doing so, will have to represent that it has satisfied all applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-11 and the filing and information requirements promulgated under the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s (“FINRA”) Bylaws. The OTC Bulletin Board will not charge us a fee for being quoted on the service. FINRA rules prohibit market makers from accepting any remuneration in return for quoting issuers’ securities on the OTC Bulletin Board or any similar medium. FINRA will review the market maker’s application (unless an exemption is applicable) and if cleared, it cannot be assumed by any investor that any federal, state or self-regulatory requirements other than certain FINRA rules an d Rule 15c2-11 have been considered by FINRA. Furthermore, the clearance should not be construed by any investor as indicating that FINRA, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any state securities commission has passed upon the accuracy or adequacy of the documents contained in the submission. The OTC Bulletin Board is a market maker or dealer-driven system offering quotation and trading reporting capabilities, a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information in OTC equity securities. The OTC Bulletin Board securities are not listed and traded on the floor of an organized national or regional stock exchange. Instead, OTC Bulletin Board securities transactions are conducted through a telephone and computer network connecting market makers or dealers in stocks. There is no assurance that our Common Stock will be accepted for listing on the OTC Bulletin Board or on any trading system other than the OTC “Pink Sheets.” 15. Our Common Stock may be subject to significant restriction on resale due to federal penny stock restrictions. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker or dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the Nasdaq system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange system). The penny stock rules require a broker or dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker or dealer also must provide the customer with bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker or dealer, and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The penny stock rules also require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker or dealer must make a special written determination that a penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in any secondary market for our stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules, and accordingly, shareholders of our Common Stock may find it difficult or impossible to sell their securities. 16. As common shares become eligible for sale, their sales could depress the market price of our stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market following any merger, acquisition or related transaction could harm the market price of our Common Stock. Moreover, as additional shares of our Common Stock become available for resale in the public market pursuant to the registration of the sale of the shares, and otherwise, the supply of our Common Stock may be offered from time to time in the open market for the shares of Common Stock. 17. Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by its Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of or authorized preferred stock, we may do so in the future. 18. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports. 