ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The following risks relate principally to our business and our status as a publicly-traded company. The risks and uncertainties described below are those risks of which we are aware and that we consider to be material to our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by a number of factors, including the factors set forth below. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS (1) A small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of any large contract could materially disrupt our business. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Five customers, the Bank for International Settlements (acting on behalf of the Central Banks), Nielsen (including the joint ventures TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC), IV, Verance and Civolution represented approximately 94% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. Most of our revenues come from long-term contracts generally having terms of three to five years, with some licenses for the life of the associated patents, which could be up to 20 years. The agreements with some of these customers provide minimum or fixed payment obligations that expire within the next few years. Some contracts we enter into contain termination for convenience provisions. If we were to lose such a contract for any reason, or if revenues from variable payment obligations do not replace revenues under the existing fixed payment obligations, our financial results could be adversely affected. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or decline in, orders or backlog from one or more major customers could reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial results. (2) Although we achieved profitability in 2008, 2010 and 2011, we may not sustain profitability, particularly if we were to lose large contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we generated net income of $5.7 million, including a tax benefit of $2.6 million originating from the release of a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets, and resulted in increasing retained earnings to $7.1 million. Our profit was primarily due to licensing arrangements with IV that we entered into in the fourth quarter of 2010. On a quarterly basis, our operating results have been inconsistent. Maintaining profitability in the future will depend upon a variety of factors, including our ability to maintain and obtain more significant partnerships like those we have with the Central Banks, Nielsen, IV, Civolution and Verance. Profitability will also depend on growth in revenues of our licensees and our efficiency in executing our 6 Table of Contents business strategy and capitalizing on new opportunities. Various adverse developments, including the loss of large contracts, the expiration of fixed payment obligations on our contracts or cost overruns on our existing contracts, could have a negative effect on our revenues, margins and profitability. (3) We may be adversely affected by variability of contracted arrangements. We have frequently agreed to modify the terms of contractual arrangements with our customers, partners and licensees in response to changes in circumstances underlying the original contractual arrangements, and it is likely that we will do so in the future. As a result of this practice, the terms of our contractual arrangements with our customers, partners and licensees may vary over time and, depending on the particular modification, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Some of our customers report royalties to us based on their revenues and their interpretation and allocation of contracted royalty rates. It is possible that the originally reported royalties could differ materially from those determined by an audit performed by us or a third party, or self-corrected by the customer. (4) A significant portion of our future revenue is subject to commercial and government contracts and development of new markets that may involve unpredictable delays and other unexpected changes. Such volatility and uncertainty might limit our actual revenue in any given quarter or year. We derive substantial portions of our revenue from commercial contracts tied to development schedules or development of new markets, which could shift for months, quarters or years as the needs of our customers and the markets in which they participate change. Government agencies and commercial customers also face budget pressures that introduce added uncertainty. Any shift in development schedules, the markets in which we or our licensees participate, or customer procurement processes, which are outside our control and may not be predictable, could result in delays in bookings forecasted for any particular period, could affect the predictability of our quarterly and annual results, and might limit our actual revenue in any given quarter or year, resulting in reduced and less predictable revenue and adversely affecting profitability. The Company is also expanding into new markets, which involve inherent risk and unpredictability. Until recent years, the Company’s business was focused primarily on digital watermarking and related signal processing technology. The Company’s work in that field dated back to the early 1990s, so that by the time of the 1999 public offering of our predecessor company, we were an established competitor or participant in that area, and had a historical perspective that provided certain advantages. Those advantages continued to grow and serve us as our tenure in the field lengthened. In recent years, particularly with the proliferation of smartphones and increased demands in the public sector for enhanced covert security options, we have investigated other technologies that may provide attractive future opportunities. These generally include technologies that leverage our strength in signal processing and support our vision for intuitive, pervasive computing. As we seek to expand outside our historical expertise, we lack the history and insight that benefited us in the watermarking field. We also lack the size and scale typical of contractors providing products and services to the federal government. While we were in the vanguard of commercial application of digital watermarking, we are not so uniquely poised in these other disciplines. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to replicate our watermarking success in other technologies we might pursue. (5) The market for our products is highly competitive, and alternative technologies or larger companies that compete with us may undermine, limit or eliminate the market for our products’ technologies, which would decrease our revenue and profits. The markets in which we compete for business are intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We expect competition to continue from both existing competitors and new market entrants. We face competition from other companies and from alternative technologies, including some of our customers and licensees. Because the market solutions based on our technologies are still in an early stage of development, we also may face competition from unexpected sources. 7 Table of Contents Alternative technologies that may directly or indirectly compete with particular applications of our watermarking technologies include: • Encryption—securing data during distribution using a secret code so it cannot be accessed except by authorized users; • Containers—inserting a media object in an encrypted wrapper, which prevents the media object from being duplicated, used for content distribution and transaction management; • Traditional anti-counterfeiting technologies—a number of solutions used by many governments (that compete for budgetary outlays) designed to deter counterfeiting, including optically sensitive ink, magnetic threads and other materials used in the printing of currencies; • Image recognition—one or several pre-specified or learned objects or object classes that can be recognized, usually together with their two-dimensional positions in the image or three-dimensional poses in the scene, such as Google Goggles, which provides a stand-alone program illustration of this function; • Radio frequency tags—embedding a chip that emits a signal when in close proximity with a receiver, used in some photo identification credentials, labels and tags; • Internet technologies—numerous existing and potential Internet access and search methods are competitive with Digimarc Mobile systems and the searching capabilities of Digimarc for Images; • Digital fingerprints and signatures—a metric, or metrics, computed solely from a source image or audio or video track, that can be used to identify an image or track, or authenticate the image or track; • Smart cards—badges and cards including a semiconductor memory and /or processor, used for authentication and related purposes; and • Bar codes or QR codes—data-carrying codes, typically visible in nature (but may be invisible if printed in ultraviolet- or infrared-responsive inks). In the competitive environments in which we operate, product generation, development and marketing processes relating to technology are uncertain and complex, and require accurate prediction of demand as well as successful management of various risks inherent in technology development. In light of these uncertainties, it is possible that our failure to successfully accommodate future changes in technologies related to our technology could have a long-term negative effect on our growth and results of operations. New developments are expected to continue, and discoveries by others, including current and potential competitors, possibly could render our services and products noncompetitive. Moreover, because of rapid technological changes, we may be required to expend greater amounts of time and money than anticipated to develop new products and services, which in turn may require greater revenue streams from those products and services to cover developmental costs. Many of the companies that compete with us for some of our business, as well as other companies with whom we may compete in the future, are larger and may have greater technical, financial, marketing and political resources than we do. These resources could enable these companies to initiate severe price cuts or take other measures in an effort to gain market share or otherwise impede our progress. We may be unable to compete successfully against current or future participants in our market or against alternative technologies, and the competitive pressures we face could decrease our revenue and profits in the future. (6) We may not realize all the expected benefits of our patent licensing arrangement with Intellectual Ventures. In connection with our patent licensing arrangement with IV, we granted an exclusive license to sublicense a substantial portion of our patent assets to IV in exchange for various strategic and financial benefits. We may not realize all the expected benefits of our patent licensing arrangement with IV, including the expected full payment of the license issue fee, profit participation revenues, reduction of patent prosecution and maintenance costs, and full payment for the assistance we provide to IV with respect to the licensed patents. Any failure to realize these 8 Table of Contents expected benefits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have given IV control over both prosecution and enforcement of these assets. While IV can seek our assistance and has committed to pay for it, we cannot guarantee that they will seek our assistance in prosecution, nor enforce the patents to the extent we would. (7) The joint ventures we entered into with Nielsen may not provide a return on investment on the initial and subsequent cash contributions, because of the risks attendant in any start-up company and competition that the proposed products and services of the joint ventures face. TVaura LLC is a jointly owned company that we established with Nielsen to focus on the discovery, development and commercialization of copyright filtering solutions, royalty/audit systems or products for online video and audio rights organizations, guilds or other organizations involved in reconciliation of royalties, residuals and other payments, and other related products. TVaura Mobile LLC is a jointly owned company that we established with Nielsen to focus on the discovery, development and commercialization of certain enhanced television offerings and other related products, an area of burgeoning competition and increasing emphasis to Nielsen and Digimarc. As part of these joint ventures, we licensed to each of TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC all of our patents and technology not already subject to exclusive license grants to other licensees. The products that have been developed to date, and additional products contemplated by the joint ventures, which are still in the development stage, will require additional investment and oversight before they can be brought to market. If the joint ventures are successful in developing these products, the products will be new and untested, and they may not have a ready market. Starting in 2012 and for the foreseeable future, most of our investment will be in TVaura Mobile LLC. We cannot predict how the market will react to our product offerings or any potential revenue that may be realized. We provided initial financial support to both joint ventures through October 2011, and additional investment will be required, regardless of whether the joint ventures are successful in their product development efforts. Our continued investment in these two joint ventures may result in neither product offerings nor a return on investment. In connection with TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating our corporate culture and business objectives with those of Nielsen into the joint ventures; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business objectives; • higher than anticipated costs of integration, development and operations at the joint ventures; • difficulties in hiring or retaining key employees who are necessary to manage the joint ventures; or • difficulties in coordinating with an entity remote to our Beaverton, Oregon operations. Moreover, each of TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC is operated as an independent company and governed by a members’ committee. We and Nielsen can elect an equal number of representatives to serve on each members’ committee. Each joint venture develops products pursuant to an operating plan that is approved by the members’ committee. Since Nielsen has significant oversight and voting rights with respect to major business decisions of TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC, we do not have control over the joint ventures’ operations, including business decisions that may affect each joint venture’s profitability or success in meeting its objectives. For any of these reasons, or as a result of other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the joint ventures, and our participation in the joint ventures could adversely affect the results of our other business efforts. (8) Disagreements between Nielsen and us regarding strategy and priorities of the joint ventures or shortage of additional funding for the joint ventures may impede the development of joint venture products, which could negatively affect the value of our investment in TVaura LLC and TVaura Mobile LLC. Potential disagreements between Nielsen and us regarding a development decision or any other decision submitted to either joint venture’s members’ committee may cause significant delays in the development and 9 Table of Contents commercialization of the particular joint venture’s products and technology and could negatively affect the value of our investment in the joint ventures. In addition, neither we nor Nielsen have any obligation to fund the joint ventures beyond the initial cash contributions provided in the joint venture agreements. If the joint ventures are unable to generate cash sufficient to develop and commercialize their products, and if additional funding is unavailable from us, Nielsen or third parties, we may not recognize the intended benefits of the joint ventures. (9) Our future growth will depend to some extent on our successful implementation of our technology in solutions provided by third parties. Our business and strategy rely substantially on deployment of our technology by our licensees and other third-party software developers and original equipment manufacturers. For example, one form of our technology is commonly deployed in image editing applications to permit users of these products to read data embedded in imagery, and thereby identify ownership and discern the identities of image owners. Another form of our technology is used in our anti-counterfeiting products. Our patented inventions are also being deployed as part of Digital Cinema systems to theatres around the world by companies that integrate technologies and subsystems. In addition, we rely on the ability of IV to license our patented inventions to third party licensees pursuant to the patent licensing arrangement we entered into with IV in October 2010. If third parties who include our technology in their products or otherwise license our intellectual property for use in their products cease to do so, or we fail to obtain other partners who will incorporate, embed, integrate or bundle our technology, or these partners are unsuccessful in their efforts, our efforts to expand deployment of our technology and increase licensing revenues would be adversely affected. Consequently, our ability to increase revenues would be adversely affected and we may suffer other adverse effects to our business. In addition, if our technology does not perform according to market expectations, our future sales would suffer as customers seek other providers. (10) We depend on our management and key employees for our future success. If we are not able to retain, hire or integrate these employees, we may not be able to meet our commitments. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance and continued service of our management and our intellectual property team. The loss of the services of any of these employees could limit our growth or undermine customer relationships. Due to the high level of technical expertise that our industry requires, our ability to successfully develop, market, sell, license and support our products, services, and intellectual property depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key personnel in engineering, sales, marketing, operations, legal and licensing, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to retain our current key employees and our ability to attract, integrate and retain these personnel in the future. It may not be practical for us to match the compensation some of our employees could garner at other employment. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in hiring and retaining employees because of concerns related to our financial performance or operating results. These circumstances may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock, and employees and prospective employees may factor in the uncertainties relating to our stability and the value of any equity-based incentives in their decisions regarding employment opportunities and decide to leave our employ. Moreover, our business is based in large part on patented technology, which is a unique and sophisticated signal processing technology. New employees require substantial training, involving significant resources and management attention. Competition for experienced personnel in our business can be intense. If we do not succeed in attracting new, qualified personnel or in integrating, retaining and motivating our current personnel, our growth and ability to deliver products and services that our customers require may be hampered. Although our employees generally have executed agreements containing non-competition clauses, we do not assure you that a court would enforce all of the terms of these clauses or the agreements generally. If these clauses were not fully enforced, our employees could be able to freely join our competitors. Although we generally attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information by our employees, we do not assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial and business prospects. 10 Table of Contents (11) If leading companies in our industry or standard-setting bodies or institutions downplay, minimize or reject the use of our technology, deployment may be slowed and we may be unable to achieve revenue growth, particularly in the media and entertainment sectors. Many of our business endeavors, such as our licensing of intellectual property in support of audio and video copy-control applications, can be impeded or frustrated by larger, more influential companies or by standard-setting bodies or institutions downplaying, minimizing or rejecting the value or use of our technology. A negative position by these companies, bodies or institutions, if taken, may result in obstacles for us that we would be incapable of overcoming and may block or impede the adoption of digital watermarking, particularly in the media and entertainment market. In addition, potential customers in the media and entertainment industry may delay or reject initiatives that relate to deployment of our technology. Such a development would make the achievement of our business objectives in this market difficult or impossible. (12) We are subject to risks encountered by companies developing and relying upon new technologies, products and services for substantial amounts of their growth or revenue. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties to which companies with new and rapidly evolving technology, products and services are exposed. These risks include the following: • we may be unable to develop sources of new revenue or sustainable growth in revenue because our current and anticipated technologies, products and services may be inadequate or may be unable to attract or retain customers; • the intense competition and rapid technological change in our industry could adversely affect the market’s acceptance of our existing and new products and services; • we may be unable to develop and maintain new technologies upon which our existing and new products and services are dependent in order for our products and services to be sustainable and competitive and in order for us to expand our revenue and business; and • our licensees may not be able to successfully enter new markets or grow their businesses, limiting the royalties payable to us and our associated revenues and profits. Some of our key technology and solutions from our patent or technology licensees are in the development stage. Consequently, products incorporating our technology and solutions are undergoing technological change and are in the early stages of introduction in the marketplace. Delays in the adoption of these products or adverse competitive developments may result in delays in the development of new revenue sources or the growth in our revenue. In addition, we may be required to incur unanticipated expenditures if product changes or improvements are required. Moreover, new industry standards might redefine the products that we or our licensees are able to sell, especially if these products are only in the prototype stage of development. If product changes or improvements are required, success in marketing these products by us or our licensees and achieving profitability from these products could be delayed or halted. We also may be required to fund any changes or improvements out of operating income, which could adversely affect our profitability. (13) We may not be able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property, and we may be subject to infringement claims and other litigation, which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on licensing our proprietary technology. To protect our intellectual property portfolio, we rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Unlicensed copying and use of our intellectual property or infringement of our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of revenue to us. Although we devote significant resources to developing and protecting our technologies, and periodically evaluate potential competitors of our technologies for infringement of our intellectual property rights, these infringements may nonetheless go undetected or may arise in the future. 11 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our patent position, including the potential need from time to time to engage in significant legal proceedings to enforce our patents, the possibility that the validity or enforceability of our patents may be challenged, and the possibility that third parties will be able to compete against us without infringing our patents. Our recently resolved litigation with Verance, which brought a declaratory judgment action alleging that certain of our patents are invalid or not infringed, is an example. Budgetary concerns may cause us not to file or continue litigation against known infringers of our patent rights, or may cause us not to file for, or pursue, patent protection for all of our inventive technology, in jurisdictions where they may have value. Some governmental entities that might infringe our intellectual property rights may enjoy sovereign immunity from such claims. Failure to reliably enforce our patent rights against infringers may make licensing more difficult. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology adequately, if there are changes in applicable laws that are adverse to our interests, or if we become involved in litigation relating to our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology or relating to the intellectual property rights of others, our business could be seriously harmed because the value ascribed to our intellectual property could diminish and result in a lower stock price, or we may incur significant costs in bringing legal proceedings against third parties who are infringing our patents. Effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited. Patent protection throughout the world is generally established on a country-by-country basis. We have applied for patent protection in the U.S. and in various other countries. We do not assure you, however, that pending patents will be issued or that issued patents will be valid or enforceable. Failure to obtain these patents or failure to enforce those patents that are obtained may result in a loss of revenue to us. We do not assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our services or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary course of building strategic business relationships with potential partners we may encounter companies that we believe are infringing on our patent portfolio. When we encounter these companies we believe are infringing, we try to negotiate a license to our patents. If we are unable to negotiate a license and continue to believe they are infringing on our patents, we may file a lawsuit and incur legal fees in the process. Patents have finite lives, and our ability to continue to commercially exploit our patents is limited to the term of the patents. Our earliest patents will begin expiring in July 2012. The size and strength of our portfolio depends on the number of patents that have been granted, offset by the number of patents that expire, in any given year. We continue to grow our patent portfolio, but we cannot assure that we will be able to exploit newer patents to the extent that we have our earlier patents. We are the exclusive licensee under some third-party patents, and may need the assistance of these parties if we choose to enforce any of these patent rights. The cooperation of these third parties cannot be assured. Although we rely on some of these technologies for our products or for our licenses to third parties to date, the licensed patents have not been material to our operations. As more companies engage in business activities relating to digital watermarking, and develop corresponding intellectual property rights, it is increasingly likely that claims may arise which assert that some of our products or services infringe upon other parties’ intellectual property rights. These claims could subject us to costly litigation and divert management resources. These claims may require us to pay significant damages, cease production of infringing products, terminate our use of infringing technology or develop non-infringing technologies. In these circumstances, continued use of our technology may require that we acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement, and we might not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our use of protected technology may result in liability that threatens our continuing operation. Some of our contracts include indemnity and similar provisions regarding our non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. As deployment of our technology increases, and more companies enter our markets, the likelihood of a third party lawsuit resulting from these provisions increases. If an infringement arose in a context 12 Table of Contents governed by such a contract, we may have to refund to our customer amounts already paid to us or pay significant damages, or we may be sued by the party whose intellectual property has allegedly been infringed upon. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, directors, consultants and corporate partners, and attempt to control access to and distribution of our technology, solutions, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these procedures, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and make unauthorized use of our technology, solutions or other proprietary information or independently develop similar technologies, solutions or information. The steps that we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our solutions, technology or other proprietary information may not prevent their misappropriation. (14) If our revenue models and pricing structures relating to products and services that are under development do not gain market acceptance, the products and services may fail to attract or retain customers and we may not be able to generate new or sustain existing revenue. Some of our business involves embedding digital watermarks in traditional and digital media, including secure documents, audio, video and imagery, and licensing our intellectual property. Our revenue stream is based primarily on a combination of development, consulting, subscription and license fees from a variety of media identification and management applications. We also launched our Digimarc Discover initiative during 2011, which incorporates new business and pricing models for licensing access to our online services portal and value added service providers. We have not fully developed revenue models for some of these future digital watermarking applications and licensing endeavors. Because some of our products and services are not yet well-established in the marketplace, and because some of these products and services will not directly displace existing solutions, we cannot be certain that the pricing structure for these products and services will gain market acceptance or be sustainable over time or that the marketing for these products and services will be effective. (15) If we are unable to respond to regulatory or industry standards effectively, or if we are unable to develop and integrate new technologies effectively, our growth and the development of our products and services could be delayed or limited. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our products and services, and those of our business partners, in accordance with regulatory or industry standards. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in part on our ability to influence and respond to emerging industry and governmental standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to influence these or other standards or respond to these standards effectively, our growth and the development of various products and services could be delayed or limited. Our market is characterized by new and evolving technologies. The success of our business will depend on our ability to develop and integrate new technologies effectively and address the increasingly sophisticated technological needs of our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in part on our ability to: • enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and other features of the products and services we offer or plan to offer; • continue to develop our technical expertise; and • develop and introduce new services, applications and technologies to meet changing customer needs and preferences and to integrate new technologies. We do not assure you that we will be successful in responding to these technological and industry challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to develop or integrate new technologies effectively or respond to these changing needs, our margins could decrease, and our release of new products and services and the deployment of our watermarking technology could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents (16) We may need to retain additional employees or contract labor in the future in order to take advantage of new business opportunities arising from increased demand, which could increase costs and impede our ability to achieve or sustain profitability in the short term. We have staffed our company with the intent of achieving and sustaining profitability. Our current staffing levels could affect our ability to respond to increased demand for our services. In addition, to meet any increased demand and take advantage of new business opportunities in the future, we may need to increase our workforce through additional employees or contract labor. Although we believe that increasing our workforce would potentially support anticipated growth and profitability, it would increase our costs. If we experience such an increase in costs, we may not succeed in achieving or sustaining profitability in the short term. (17) An increase in our operations outside of the U.S. subjects us to risks additional to those to which we are exposed in our domestic operations. We believe that revenue from sales of products and services to commercial, governmental and other customers outside the U.S. could represent a growing percentage of our total revenue in the future. International sales and services are subject to a number of risks that can adversely affect our sales of products and services to customers outside of the U.S., including the following: • changes in foreign government regulations and security requirements; • export license requirements, tariffs and taxes; • trade barriers; • difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • currency fluctuations; • longer payment cycles than those for customers in the U.S.; • difficulty in managing foreign operations; and • political and economic instability. We do not have an extensive operational infrastructure for international business. We generally depend on local or international business partners and subcontractors for performance of substantial portions of our business. These factors may result in greater risk of performance problems or of reduced profitability with respect to our international programs in these markets. In addition, if foreign customers, in particular foreign government authorities, terminate or delay the implementation of our products and services, it may be difficult for us to recover our potential losses. (18) The terms and conditions of our contracts could subject us to damages, losses and other expenses if we fail to meet delivery and other performance requirements. Our service contracts typically include provisions imposing: • development, delivery and installation schedules and milestones; • customer acceptance and testing requirements; and • other performance requirements. To the extent these provisions involve performance over extended periods of time, risks of noncompliance may increase. From time to time we have experienced delays in system implementation, timely acceptance of programs, concerns regarding program performance and other contractual disputes. If we fail to meet contractual milestones or other performance requirements as promised, or to successfully resolve customer disputes, we 14 Table of Contents could incur liability for damages, as well as increased costs, lower margins, or compensatory obligations in addition to other losses, such as harm to our reputation. Any unexpected increases in costs to meet our contractual obligations or any other requirements necessary to address claims and damages with regard to our customer contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. (19) Products deploying our technology could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us, divert application of our resources from other purposes or increase our project implementation and support costs. Products and services as complex as those we offer or develop may contain undetected defects or errors. Furthermore, we often provide complex implementation, integration, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our products. Despite testing, defects or errors in our products and services may occur, which could result in delays in the development and implementation of products and systems, inability to meet customer requirements or expectations in a timely manner, loss of revenue or market share, increased implementation and support costs, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs, increased service and warranty costs and warranty or breach of contract claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from warranty or breach of contract claims through warranty disclaimers and liability limitation clauses in our sales agreements when we can, these contractual provisions are sometimes not included and may not be enforceable in every instance. If a court refuses to enforce the liability limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arise that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, the expense associated with defending these actions or paying the resultant claims could be significant. (20) The security systems used in our product and service offerings may be circumvented or sabotaged by third parties, which could result in the disclosure of sensitive information or private personal information or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Our business relies on computers and other information technologies, both internal and at customer locations. The protective measures that we use may not prevent security breaches, and failure to prevent security breaches may disrupt our business, damage our reputation, and expose us to litigation and liability. A party who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate sensitive or proprietary information or materials or cause interruptions or otherwise damage our products, services and reputation, and the property of our customers. If unintended parties obtain sensitive data and information, or create bugs or viruses or otherwise sabotage the functionality of our systems, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to our customers or lose the confidence of our customers, any of which may cause the termination or modification of our contracts. Further, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from these events. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect ourselves against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Any protection or remedial measures may not be available at a reasonable price or at all, or may not be entirely effective if commenced. (21) We are periodically involved in the ordinary course of business in litigation, and an adverse resolution of such litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. From time to time, in our normal course of business, we are a party to various legal claims, actions and complaints. As part of our patent licensing program, we bring claims or counterclaims of patent infringement to enforce our patent rights. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able to estimate the amount or range of gain or loss that could result from an outcome of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are often 15 Table of Contents uncertain and difficult to predict. We could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. An unfavorable outcome in any legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STOCK (22) Our common stock price may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment in shares of our common stock. The price of shares of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on the price of shares of our common stock include: • the public’s reaction to our public disclosures; • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or future prospects; • potential changes from originally reported royalties by customers resulting from an audit performed by us or a third party, or self-corrected by the customer; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles applicable to us; • conditions of the industry as a result of changes in financial markets or general economic or political conditions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock in the future, or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • changes in analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding us, other comparable companies or the industry generally, and our ability to meet those estimates; • future issuances of our common stock or the perception that future sales could occur; and • volatility in the equity securities market. (23) Our common stock price may increase or decrease on no material news or developments. As a thinly-traded microcap company, volatility in the equity securities market may disproportionately affect swings in our stock price, upward and downward. Over the past year, we have had significant fluctuations in our stock price and market capitalization on no material news or developments. We suspect that the effects of computerized trading also exacerbate fluctuations in our stock price. (24) Our corporate governance documents, our rights agreement and Oregon law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that shareholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Oregon law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include supermajority voting requirements for shareholders to amend our organizational documents and limitations on actions by our shareholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. On July 31, 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a rights agreement pursuant to which one one-hundredth (1/100) of a preferred stock purchase right will be issued for each outstanding share of our common stock. In general terms, our rights agreement works by imposing a significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our Board of 16 Table of Contents Directors. Oregon law also restricts the ability to vote shares of stock acquired in a transaction that causes the acquiring person to control at least one-fifth, one-third or one-half of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except as authorized by a vote of the shareholders. Although we believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 