Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The current global financial crisis and economic downturn may have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The current global financial crisis and economic downturn have adversely affected economies and businesses around the world, including in China. Due to the global economical downturn, a decrease in exportation and domestic consumer demand and a slowdown in domestic property investments, the economic 4 Table of Contents situation in China has been severe since the second half of 2008. Principally due to this change in the macro-economic conditions, advertisers started to downsize or cancel their advertising campaigns and as a result the demand for our advertising services did not increase as we expected in 2008, which had a material adverse effect upon our business and profitability. If the current economic downturn continues, our businesses, results of operations and financial condition could continue to be materially and adversely affected. Our business substantially depends on CCTV. We rely on our access to advertising time slots on CCTV to broadcast our clients’ advertisements. Any unfavorable change in CCTV’s advertising model, any changes that adversely affect CCTV’s market position or any limitation on our access to desired television advertising time slots could harm the effectiveness and attractiveness of our services. CCTV is the sole television network from which we currently obtain advertising time. We place our advertising clients’ advertisements on CCTV, the largest television network in China, which offers 17 channels nationwide. According to China Radio & TV Yearbook, CCTV had the largest market share in China in terms of total television advertising revenues. We believe CCTV is generally perceived as the most influential and reputable television medium by the public in China, due to its central government sponsorship, extensive network coverage and long broadcasting history in China. As such, advertisers often regard CCTV as the television advertising platform on which they can gain the maximum exposure and recognition for their products or services in China. We believe our access to a substantial number of advertising time slots on five of the main channels of CCTV, particularly during certain popular television programs, enhances our service offerings. CCTV currently uses third-party agencies, such as our company, to sell a significant portion of its advertising time slots to advertisers, while selling the remaining portion of its advertising time slots directly by itself or through auctions. If CCTV changes this model and increases the volume of its direct sales to advertisers, we may lose our advertising clients and our results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. For example, in 2007, CCTV began marketing by itself approximately 20 seconds out of the twelve minutes of advertising time for the Chinese New Year Gala program that we had managed for CCTV in prior years, which resulted in a slight decrease in our revenues. In addition, certain of CCTV’s senior management members changed in May 2009, which could result in a change of CCTV’s program mix and operational model. An unfavorable change in CCTV’s market position could materially and adversely affect us. CCTV is owned by China’s central government, and its dominant position in China’s television advertising market is derived primarily from its status as one of the central government’s key channels for communication with the public. As a result, CCTV enjoys certain favorable governmental support that is not available to other television networks. For example, the central government mandates that CCTV’s Channel 1, on which we have a substantial number of advertising time slots, be broadcast by all regional television networks in China, which makes this channel particularly attractive to advertisers who want to achieve nationwide exposure. Nevertheless, CCTV faces increasing competition from regional television networks that strive to offer more attractive television programs to compete with CCTV for television audiences. If CCTV fails to compete successfully against these other networks, it may lose its market share. Any changes that could potentially erode CCTV’s dominant market position, such as relaxation of media control by the government or inadequate response to competition from other networks by CCTV, could in turn reduce the attractiveness of our advertising offerings. CCTV has considerable bargaining power over us. Consistent with industry practice in China, the pricing terms of our advertising contracts with CCTV are typically negotiated annually, including the contracts that have terms of more than one year. As CCTV is owned by the government, our negotiating power with CCTV is limited. In general, CCTV would be less likely to enter into new contracts with us if we failed to bring in sufficient advertising revenues for the advertising time slots contracted to us in a previous year. From time to time we enter into contracts with CCTV and commit ourselves to a minimum amount of advertising revenues with respect to certain advertising time slots provided to us. Under all such contracts, we will be required to pay the agreed-upon minimum amounts to CCTV even if we do not successfully procure advertisers for the time slots. If we fail to procure sufficient advertising clients for the time slots provided to us or receive total amounts lower than what we have committed ourselves to deliver, we may be required to cover the difference ourselves, as a result of which our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As our existing 5 Table of Contents contracts expire, we may be unable to renew or extend the terms of contracts for desired advertising time slots on desirable CCTV channels or at favorable price levels, if at all. Any significant decreases in our CCTV advertising time slot resources as a result of our failure to renew or extend our existing contracts with CCTV could materially and adversely affect the effectiveness and attractiveness of our advertising offerings. Payment terms under our special events services contracts with CCTV are unclear. We assist CCTV in the sales and marketing of advertising time slots for major sporting events broadcast on its Channels 1 and 2. Our fees for such services are not expressly stipulated in our contracts with CCTV. We typically receive a percentage of the total advertising revenues relating to such events as our compensation, which is determined by CCTV at its sole discretion on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, we have experienced delays in receiving confirmation of our special events services fees for several months after our services were rendered. For example, we have not received from CCTV the confirmation of our service fees in relation to the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games as of June 26, 2009. Since we only recognize the revenues for our special events services when we receive such confirmation, our revenues for the relevant periods will be adversely affected if CCTV substantially lowers our fees for special events services or fails to confirm our fees on a timely basis. CCTV also owns 50% of Guang Er Gao Zhi Film and Television Production Company Ltd., or Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP, with whom we have entered into a framework agreement to procure advertising rights to several CCTV programs, See “—We access a substantial portion of our media resources through a related party, Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP, and if Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP fails to perform its contract with us for any reason or ceases operations, or if its access to such media resources is terminated, our business could be disrupted and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.” We rely on access to advertising time slots during a limited number of television programs to place our clients’ advertisements and the desirability of the advertising time slots we obtain depends on the popularity of the relevant television programs and other factors that are difficult to predict. We rely significantly on our rights to advertising time slots during a limited number of television programs, including the Chinese New Year Gala program, Television Guides and the programs under our daytime advertising package, all of which are broadcast on CCTV. We also obtained advertising rights to a number of additional programs on CCTV Channels 2, 4, E and F, which became available to us in 2008. Although we occasionally procure advertising time slots during other programs on CCTV, we substantially rely on the regular daily television programs we have obtained from CCTV to place advertisements for clients and generate revenues. We do not have control over the availability or scheduling of these programs. If any of such programs are rescheduled to times that are unattractive to our clients or if any of such programs are shortened or canceled by CCTV and we cannot obtain alternative media resources, we would face difficulty in marketing our services and our revenues may decline. For example, we previously held rights to advertising time slots on the CCTV children’s program Big Pinwheel, but when this program was re-scheduled to a time less attractive to advertisers in late 2005 it became increasingly difficult for us to sell the advertising time slots for this program in 2006 and we did not renew our contract with CCTV for this program in 2007, which contributed to a decline in our revenues from advertising agency services in 2007. As a further example, the advertising time for World Update, a program on CCTV Channel 4 for which we have obtained advertising rights, was reduced from three minutes to two minutes in 2008 when the length of the program was shortened, and eventually the program was cancelled in May 2008. This type of change to the advertising time slots currently available to us may cause a decrease in our revenues from advertising agency services in future periods. In addition, the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games negatively affected our advertising sales for certain regular daily television programs because advertisers who have a limited advertising budget decided to devote their advertising spending to Olympic Games-related programs or events at the expense of other regular daily television programs. The broadcasting schedule of certain regular daily television programs was also interrupted or changed during the Beijing Olympic Games, which made such programs less attractive to our advertisers. In addition, the value of television advertising time slots depends primarily on the popularity, ratings and demographics of the viewership of the program to which such advertising time slots are attached. Therefore, the 6 Table of Contents perceived effectiveness and desirability of our services to a certain extent depends on the acceptance by the public of the television programs to which our advertising time slots are attached, which is difficult to predict. The success of a television program also depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing programs, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment, the general trend of leisure time activities and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. Poor ratings of a television program in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in the advertising spending for any advertising time slots related to that program. If any of the television programs to which our advertising time slots are attached becomes unpopular, our service offerings may become less attractive to our clients and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted as a result. We access a substantial portion of our media resources through a related party, Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP, and if Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP fails to perform its contract with us for any reason or ceases operations, or if its access to such media resources is terminated, our business could be disrupted and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In December 2007, we entered into a framework agreement with Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP, an advertising agency that has obtained advertising rights relating to a number of television programs on CCTV. Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP is 50% owned by CCTV and 50% beneficially owned by the immediate family members of our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Shengcheng Wang. Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP is not controlled by our company, Mr. Shengcheng Wang or his immediate family members. Under the framework agreement, we have obtained a right of first refusal to procure advertisers for the advertising time slots Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP has obtained from CCTV, which currently consist of the advertising time slots during a number of programs on CCTV Channels 2 and 4, starting from January 1, 2008. The advertising time obtained by us through such exclusive arrangement accounted for approximately 19.3% of the total advertising time available to us on CCTV in 2008. Either CCTV or Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP may terminate their agreement for any reason, including a breach of contract by the other party. As we are not a party to the contract between CCTV and Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP, we will not be able to enforce our advertising rights if either of them is unable or unwilling to perform the contract or to continue their relationship. In addition, Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP may fail to perform the framework agreement or may discontinue its operations. If any of such events occurs, our ability to obtain access to sufficient media resources may be impaired, our business could be disrupted and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have not entered into a written contract with Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP with respect to the media resources on CCTV Channels 2 and 4 for the year of 2009, which add uncertainty on the performance by Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP of its obligations under the framework agreement. We substantially increased our advertising time slots obtained from CCTV starting from 2008, and if our efforts to attract advertising clients for such newly available time slots are not successful, our revenues may decline and our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Starting from 2008, we secured advertising rights relating to a number of additional programs on CCTV Channels 2 and 4 through our framework agreement with Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP. Most of these television programs are news programs, for which we have no previous marketing experience. In addition, we are required to pay a fixed amount to CCTV with respect to the Channel 4 programs regardless of whether we are successful in procuring advertisers for the time slots during these programs. We may not be able to generate sufficient advertising revenues from such programs to cover the fixed amount we are required to pay for these advertising rights. If any of these adverse developments occurs, we will not benefit from the increased advertising time slots available to us as much as we expect, or at all, our revenues and net income may decline, and our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. For example, in 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, we did not generate enough revenues from the time slots on CCTV Channel 4 programs to cover the fixed amount we were required to pay to Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP and as a result we incurred a loss from such programs. 7 Table of Contents Our ability to adjust our advertisement costs is limited and any substantial increase in the prices charged by CCTV for the advertising time slots available to us may reduce our revenues and profitability. In negotiating with our advertising clients, we price the advertising time slots for most daily television programs based on a number of factors, including market demand for such advertising time slots, target audience, the ratings and quality of the relevant television programs and prices charged by our competitors. We also refer to the rate cards published by CCTV for its advertising time slots. We typically negotiate the pricing terms with CCTV with respect to the advertising time slots of such daily television programs available to us on an annual basis. In such contracts, we and CCTV agree on the prices that we will pay to CCTV for these time slots, which are generally lower than the published rate card prices. We typically retain the difference between the prices we charge to our advertising clients and the prices we pay to CCTV as our commission. CCTV usually increases the prices charged to us and the prices on its published rate cards every year. We are typically able to pass on such price increases to our advertising clients. However, in the future we may not always be able to do so. Due to its dominant market position, CCTV enjoys much greater bargaining power over price increases than we do and our ability to control such advertisement costs is limited. If CCTV substantially raises the prices charged to us for the advertising time slots available to us and we are unable to pass on such costs to our advertising clients, our revenues would decrease and our profitability may decline. For example, CCTV increased the media fees for Channel 4 programs by approximately 40.9% in 2009, which will negatively affect our operating income from these programs. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of large clients, and the loss of these clients, or the loss of significant advertisers by our agency clients, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. A relatively small number of clients are responsible for a substantial percentage of our revenues. In the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, individual clients accounting for more than 10% of our revenues in the aggregate were responsible for 37.8% and 32.3% of our total revenues, respectively. None of our clients accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in 2008 because we recorded the advertising revenues from CCTV Channel 4 programs on a gross basis, which increased our revenue basis. Most of our large clients are third-party advertising agencies who obtained advertising time slots from us for their advertising clients and may in turn rely on a limited number of large advertisers for their businesses. In particular, we relied on two third-party advertising agencies to resell all of our advertising time slots during the Television Guides program in 2008. The performance of such third-party advertising agencies has a direct impact on our operating results. Advertisers who access our advertising time slots through other advertising agencies may reduce advertising and marketing spending or cancel projects at any time for any reason. Any of our advertising clients may not continue to utilize our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. For example, in 2007, one advertiser that placed its advertisements through a third-party agency reduced its advertising spending for time slots during the Television Guides program, which resulted in a substantial decrease in our revenues. A significant reduction in advertising and marketing spending by, or the loss of one or more of, our advertising clients, if not replaced by new clients or an increase in business from existing clients, could make it difficult for us to fill the time slot vacancies and our revenues and profits could decline significantly as a result. The third-party advertising agencies may also introduce their advertising clients to other advertising service providers who have obtained other advertising time slots from CCTV or other television networks. As a result, any loss of our significant clients, or the loss of significant advertisers by our agency clients, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if any client with whom we have a substantial amount of business experiences financial difficulty, we could be unable to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all. This may result in an increase in our bad debt expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors, we may lose our market share and our profitability may be materially harmed. The advertising industry is highly competitive and fragmented in China. As an increasing number of companies enter the industry, competition continues to intensify. Our direct competitors are other national or 8 Table of Contents regional advertising or marketing services providers that offer television airtime to advertisers, primarily including SinoMedia Holding Limited, Walk-on Advertising Co., Ltd. and Charm Communication Corp. We compete with other television advertising agencies for the limited time slots available on CCTV or other television networks on the basis of sales and marketing capabilities, operating track record and service quality. In particular, some of our advertising clients are other advertising agencies who could become our competitors seeking the same limited media resources. We also compete with other television advertising agencies for advertisers’ spending on the basis of desirability of time slots offered, television network coverage, service quality, reputation, pricing and relationships with television networks. We face competition from new entrants in the television advertising sector. Wholly foreign-owned advertising companies have been allowed to operate in China since December 2005, which exposes us to increased competition from international advertising companies that have greater financial and other resources than us. Fixed costs in the advertising industry are generally low, and it is customary that advertising service contracts with advertising clients, such as ours, are entered into on a short-term and non-exclusive basis. It is possible that our competitors, including new market entrants, could acquire a significant number of clients and establish a significant presence in our markets. Some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages, such as closer cooperative relationships with CCTV, longer operating histories, larger market shares, access to larger client bases or media resources, or greater financial, sales and marketing, distribution, technical or other resources, than we do. Increased competition will provide potential clients with a wider choice of advertising and marketing service providers, which could lead to lower prices and decreased revenues and profits for us. We may not be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors and failure to do so may cause our market share and our revenues to decline significantly. In addition, television networks, upon which we depend for our business, also compete with other forms of advertising media, such as radio, newspapers, magazines, the Internet, indoor or outdoor flat panel displays, billboards and public transport advertising, for overall advertising spending. In particular, we believe that the Internet is becoming increasingly popular as an alternative advertising medium among advertisers. In addition, technology in television, video, data services and other media used in the entertainment industry is changing rapidly, and advances in technology have led to alternative methods of content delivery and storage. Certain changes in the behavior of television viewers driven by these methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on the television advertising revenues. For example, devices that enable users to view television programs on a time-delayed basis or allow them to fast-forward or skip advertisements may cause changes in consumer behavior that could adversely affect the advertising revenues of television networks and our results of operations. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the provision of advertising services, a business that is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other general trends. We derive substantially all of our revenues from a single business, the provision of advertising services. Demand for our services and the resulting advertising spending by our clients are highly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and other general trends, including changes in lifestyle patterns and consumers’ tastes and preferences. Recessionary economic cycles may adversely affect the businesses of our advertising clients, which can have the effect of reducing the volume of advertising time slots and other services advertisers purchase from us. For example, since the second half of 2008, the global recession has negatively affected the business of many of our clients or potential clients in China, which significantly reduced the demand for our services. Additionally, advertisers could also decide to spend more of their advertising budget on non-television advertising media because of perceived changes in consumers’ lifestyles or their tastes and preferences. A general decrease in total advertising spending, or a decrease in the demand for our advertising services in particular, would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Advertising clients periodically review and change their advertising or marketing models and strategies, and if we fail to adapt quickly to such changes, we may be unable to attract advertisers and increase the demand for our services, and therefore be unable to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. Advertising service contracts with clients are generally entered into on a short-term and non-exclusive basis. Clients may move their accounts to another agency on relatively short notice. For example, in 2007, one advertiser reduced its advertising spending for time slots during the Television Guides program, which resulted in a substantial decrease in our revenues. In many cases, we represent a client for only a portion of its advertising or marketing needs or only in specific advertisements or marketing campaigns, thus enabling the client to continually compare the effectiveness of our services against that of other agencies. A client’s decision to place its advertisements through us is affected by a number of factors, including the desirability of time slots we offer, the extent of television network coverage we provide, our service packages and pricing structure and the client’s perception of the effectiveness and quality of our services. If we fail to retain our existing clients or increase advertisers’ awareness and utilization of our services, or to formulate attractive service packages and pricing structures to attract new clients, demand for our services will not grow and may even decrease. Advertisers might be unwilling to seek time slots from us or to pay the levels of advertising fees we require to generate profits, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and our profitability. We depend on the services of key personnel, including Mr. Shengcheng Wang, who is our chairman and chief executive officer, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Mr. Shengcheng Wang, our chairman and chief executive officer, has led our company since our establishment. Our business and operations depend to a significant extent on his business vision, industry expertise, experience with our business operations and management skills, as well as his relationships with CCTV, many of our key clients and our employees. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for Mr. Shengcheng Wang. If he becomes unable or unwilling to continue in his present position, we may not be able to replace him in a timely manner or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and growth prospect. We also rely on the performance of a number of other key employees. Although we believe that we have established a reputation in the industry that attracts talented personnel, we are still vulnerable to adverse consequences from the loss of key employees due to competition among providers of advertising services for talented personnel. A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares is beneficially owned by Mr. Shengcheng Wang, our chairman and chief executive officer, and, as a result, he has substantial influence over our company and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Following our initial public offering, Mr. Shengcheng Wang, our chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owns 69.80% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, he has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Wang also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Wang, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. Mr. Wang may cause us to take actions that are opposed by other shareholders as his interests may differ from those of other shareholders, including those who hold our ADSs. Moreover, certain of Mr. Wang’s family members, including his parents, have owned or controlled a number of companies that conduct businesses similar to ours and enter into transactions with us from time to time. For example, Mr. Wang’s immediate family members indirectly own a 50% interest in Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP, with whom we have entered into a framework agreement to procure advertising rights to several CCTV programs. See “Related Party Transactions—Transactions with Guang Er Gao Zhi FTP.” All of such companies are managed separately by management teams different from that of our company. Although Mr. Wang and his parents and spouse have agreed not to engage in any business that directly or indirectly competes with us, such undertakings may not be as effective as we expect, and any breach of such undertakings by Mr. Wang or his immediate family members may result in conflicts of interests and harm the interests of our other shareholders. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective and adequate sales and marketing team, our sales and revenues could materially decrease. We depend on our sales personnel to increase advertisers’ awareness, acceptance and utilization of our services, which are crucial to our revenues, business and growth. As of December 31, 2008, we had 54 employees directly engaged in sales. Consistent with the industry norm, we typically experience a high turnover rate among our sales personnel, and we cannot assure you that our current sales personnel will remain effective or loyal to us. We face intense competition for experienced sales personnel both from our direct competitors and other advertising and media companies. Furthermore, we will need to continue expanding our sales force if our business continues to grow. We may not be able to hire, retain, integrate or motivate an adequate number of qualified new sales personnel as we grow our business, which could disrupt our business and cause our revenues to materially decrease. We may not be able to successfully solicit sponsors for the public service announcements we produce and therefore may not receive sponsorship fees to cover our production costs. In addition, we enter into fixed-price contracts with respect to our content production services, and our failure to accurately estimate the resources required for the execution of these contracts could negatively affect our results of operations. We are committed to produce public service announcements for the daily “Guang Er Gao Zhi” program broadcast on CCTV. We typically solicit sponsors for such announcements we produce and the sponsor’s name will be shown at the end of an announcement. We charge fees for this service based on the value of such sponsorship to the sponsors. If we are unable to procure sponsors for the public service announcements we produce, we will not be able to cover the costs we incur in producing such announcements. Furthermore, a new provision in China’s tax law does not allow corporations to deduct the cost of sponsorship as a business expense, and it is not clear how this provision will be applied in practice and whether it will affect demand for our sponsorship services. In addition, all of our content production services are provided on a fixed-price basis. Such contracts require us to undertake projections and planning related to resource utilization and costs, and we bear the risk of cost overruns in connection with our production projects. If we cannot secure a price increase from our clients and try to complete our production within a restricted budget, we may not be able to deliver the content at the quality expected from us. Any failure to accurately estimate the resources required for a project or any other factors that may impact our costs to complete the project, or any failure to complete our production at the committed performance level, could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Our strategy to acquire complementary businesses and assets involves significant risks and uncertainty that may prevent us from achieving our objectives and harm our financial conditions and results of operations. Our business strategy includes selective acquisitions of businesses and assets that are complementary to our current advertising business. The implementation of this strategy involves significant risks and uncertainties, including our ability to: • identify and acquire suitable businesses or assets on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • raise sufficient capital to fund the acquisitions; • integrate acquired services, products or operations into our organization effectively; • retain and motivate key personnel and retain the clients of acquired entities; and • derive the intended financial benefits from our acquisitions. Our management may be required to devote significant time and attention to acquisitions and to integrating newly acquired companies into our existing operations. There are other risks associated with acquisitions, including: • unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including exposure to lawsuits, associated with newly acquired businesses or assets; • short-term deterioration in our operating results due to new acquisitions of unprofitable companies; 11 Table of Contents • failure to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; • potential impairment losses or amortization expenses relating to intangible assets arising from any of such acquisitions, which may materially reduce our net income; • potential conflicts with our existing employees and advertising clients as a result of our integration of newly acquired companies; and • our inexperience in carrying out acquisitions, as we have not previously engaged in any such transactions. Any of these risks could materially increase our costs and expenses associated with any such acquisitions, which in turn could harm our financial condition and results of operations, and we may be unable to recover our investment in the acquired business or assets. If our clients forfeit the use of advertising time they have won in CCTV’s annual open bidding process, we may lose the deposit we placed with CCTV. During CCTV’s annual open bidding process, we bid on behalf of our clients for advertising time. As a condition for attending the CCTV bidding process, both our clients and we are required to place a deposit with CCTV. The amount of our deposit depends on the number of clients that we represent in the process. According to CCTV’s bidding policy, such deposit will be returned to us when our clients complete the placement of advertisements on a minimum percentage of the advertising time won by them in the bidding process. The minimum percentage is specified by CCTV. We have the right to sell the advertising time on which our clients cannot or decide not to place advertisements, unless our clients do not use the minimum percentage of such advertising time as required by CCTV, in which case CCTV has the right to retain the deposit placed by our clients and us, and demand further compensation from our clients and us if CCTV incurs additional actual loss. Therefore, we may lose our deposit to CCTV if our clients fail to place advertisements on the time slots that we have obtained for our clients through the bidding process. If this happens, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any such occurrence may negatively affect our relationship with CCTV and materially and adversely affect our business prospects. At December 31, 2008, our aggregate bidding deposits held by CCTV was RMB 13 million. We may encounter difficulties in expanding into regional television networks, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently obtain all of our advertising time slots from CCTV. One element of our strategy is to expand our presence on regional television networks. Our implementation of this strategy will be subject to many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • we have no track record in obtaining advertisement resources from regional television networks; • our experience and expertise gained from our cooperation with CCTV may not be successfully applied to the regional television networks; • we do not have a long-standing history with these regional television networks as we do with CCTV; • we will face intense competition from advertising companies that are already well-established in those markets; • we may not be able to accurately assess and adjust to the consumer tastes, preferences and demands in the relevant regional markets; and • we may not be able to generate enough revenue to offset our costs. These and other risks may make our expansion into regional television networks unsuccessful. In addition, implementing this strategy may require us to devote significant resources to promoting advertising time slots we obtain from regional television networks, which may divert our management’s attention from our existing business. If we are not successful in expanding into regional television networks, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We may need additional capital to fund the growth of our business, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, and which, if available, could dilute your interest in our company. Capital requirements are difficult to plan in our rapidly changing industry. We expect that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and the proceeds from our initial public offering will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, for both working capital and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future. If, however, there are unforeseen changes in general business conditions or unexpected developments in our business or expansion, we may require additional cash resources. For example, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we incur more debt, we will be liable for increased debt service costs and might have to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially acceptable terms is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, our securities; • prevailing conditions of the capital markets in which we seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in advertising companies in China; • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign exchange; and • economic, political and other conditions in China. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure to raise additional funds when needed could limit our ability to expand or develop our operations to respond to market demand or competitive challenges. If we are unable to adapt to changing technological developments in the media and advertising industries, our competitiveness, business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Technology used in advertisement content production is evolving rapidly and we need to keep pace with changes in technology and service features to meet the needs of advertisers and to remain competitive. For example, cutting edge filming equipment and editing tools, including advanced computer applications, are increasingly utilized in the content production process to achieve high quality and eye-catching visual effects. However, we may not have the financial or other resources necessary to finance and implement future technological developments or to replace obsolete technology. If we fail to identify, develop and incorporate new features or technologies in our services and operations in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may lose our competitiveness and demand for our services may decrease, which would have a material and adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. To keep pace with new technological developments, we may be required to expend significant amounts of funds to develop or acquire new technologies, which could significantly increase our costs and operating expenses and materially strain our capital resources. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. Our quarterly results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the seasonality of advertising spending. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate, such as a deterioration of economic conditions in China, are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. If our revenues for a particular quarter are lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. In addition, we derive a portion of our revenues from our sales and marketing services to CCTV in connection with 13 Table of Contents major sporting events, the occurrence of which vary from period to period. The amount of our fees for such services, and the timing of confirmation for such fees, are determined by CCTV at its sole discretion and are difficult to predict. As a result of the foregoing, our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period and you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations as an indication of our future performance. We may become subject to government actions due to our advertising content, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising distributors and advertising service providers, such as our company, to ensure that the content of the advertisements prepared or distributed are fair, accurate and in full compliance with applicable laws. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties against us, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease disseminating the advertisements and orders to publish public announcements to correct the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke our license to operate advertising business. In addition, such non-compliance can constitute a violation of criminal law and criminal proceedings could be brought against us as a result. Under the relevant PRC regulations, we are required to independently review and verify the content of our clients’ advertisements for compliance and to confirm that any required government review has been performed and that all necessary approvals have been obtained. In addition, for advertising content related to certain types of products, such as tobacco, alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical instruments, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals relating to their operations, including the advertisers’ operating qualifications and proofs of quality inspection. Under our contracts with advertising clients, our advertisers are responsible for obtaining any PRC government approvals or licenses required for their advertisements and providing us with proof of such approvals or licenses prior to our placing their advertisements. While we review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, some advertisement that we place may still not be in compliance with the relevant PRC laws and regulations or the supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us by our advertising clients may not be true and complete. Our failure to conduct such review may subject us to governmental inspections or actions. Governmental proceedings may harm our reputation and may divert significant amounts of our management’s time and other resources. It may be difficult and expensive to defend against such proceedings. We cannot assure you that we would successfully defend such claims, and if we fail to do so we would have to bear the costs of all such actions as well as any fines imposed on us. In addition, some of our existing contracts with our advertising clients do not provide us with any indemnity from our clients for claims relating to advertising content. As a result of the foregoing, any governmental proceedings brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to liabilities from allegations that certain of our clients’ advertisements may be false or misleading or that our clients’ products may be defective. We may become, or may be joined as, a defendant in litigations or administrative proceedings brought against our clients by third parties, our clients’ competitors, regulatory authorities or consumers. These actions could involve claims alleging, among other things, that: • advertisements made with respect to our advertising clients’ products or services are false, deceptive, misleading, libelous, injurious to the public welfare or otherwise offensive; • our advertising clients’ products are defective or injurious and may be harmful to others; or • marketing, communications or advertising materials created for our advertising clients infringe on the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. 14 Table of Contents The damages, costs, expenses or attorney’s fees arising from any of these claims could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations to the extent that we are not adequately insured against such risks or indemnified by our clients. In any case, our reputation may be negatively affected by such allegations. We are using the brand name “Guang Er Gao Zhi” in Chinese characters in our company logo and, through Mass Media, we are currently in the process of applying to register that brand name and logo with the State Trademark Bureau. If our applications are not successful, we may face disruptions to our business operations and our brand name and logo may become vulnerable to third-party imitation or claims and we may be forced to discontinue using them. Even if our trademark applications are approved, the legal remedy available to us against prior uses by other companies is limited. We believe market recognition of the “Guang Er Gao Zhi ( )” brand has contributed significantly to the success of our business. “Guang Er Gao Zhi” means “to spread the message far and wide,” and is also the name of a one-minute daily public service announcement program on CCTV that we produce. We filed applications to register the “Guang Er Gao Zhi” brand name and logo with the State Trademark Bureau in the PRC in 2004 and 2005 for use in the categories of advertising, publishing and entertainment services, including radio and television program production. Our application in the category of publishing, movie production, radio and television program production has been approved and the trademark is valid from 2007 to 2017. Our application in the category of advertising is still pending. Based on our search at the State Trademark Bureau, we are not aware of anyone else who has been granted the right to use “Guang Er Gao Zhi” as a registered trademark in any of the categories of services or products in which we filed our applications. The outcome of our remaining trademark application in the PRC is uncertain and unpredictable. Our efforts to register our brand name and logo in the category of advertising may not be successful and if our applications are denied, our use of the term “Guang Er Gao Zhi” as our brand name and in our logo in that context will not be entitled to trademark protection. Consequently, we may not be able to adequately protect our brand name and logo against imitation, infringement, or claims that our use of the phrase infringes upon a third party’s rights, which could disrupt our business operations and result in substantial costs and diversion of our financial and management resources. In addition, if any third party successfully obtains the right to use “Guang Er Gao Zhi” as a registered trademark in the category of advertising, we may be forced to discontinue the use of this brand and could be subject to payments for damages or other penalties. We are aware of several companies in China that are unrelated to us and are currently using the Chinese characters of “Guang Er Gao Zhi” as part of their company names. Even if both of our trademark registration applications are approved, we may not be able to prevent the use of the phrase in the corporate names of these other companies, unless our trademark is legally recognized as a “well-known trademark.” The public may be confused and may mistakenly associate the products, services or activities of those companies with us, which may result in harm to the reputation of our company. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may be expensive to defend and may disrupt our business and operations. We place advertisements provided by our advertising clients on television and also produce television advertisements based on the information provided to us by our advertising clients. In doing so, we may employ information, software programs, technology or equipment supplied by other parties, to which such parties may not have intellectual property rights. Some of our existing contracts with our advertising clients do not provide us with indemnity from our clients for any intellectual property infringement claims relating to the advertisements provided by our clients. We cannot be certain that our operations or any aspects of our business do not or will not infringe upon patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Although we are not aware of any such claims, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property rights of others. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to liability for our infringement activities or may be prohibited from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives of our own. In addition, we may 15 Table of Contents incur significant expenses, and may be forced to divert management’s time and other resources from our business and operations to defend against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merits. Successful infringement or licensing claims made against us may result in significant monetary liabilities and may materially disrupt our business and operations by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could harm our business and competitive position. We operate in an industry that places a premium on creative abilities and artistic talents. Many of our work products resulting from our creative activities are the subject of intellectual property rights, on which our business relies to stay competitive in the marketplace. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and policing unauthorized use of proprietary information can be difficult and expensive. In addition, intellectual property rights historically have not been enforced in the PRC to the same extent as in the United States. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain members of our current management team only recently joined our company, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate the collective ability of our management to manage our business and operations and their effectiveness as a team. Several members of our management team have worked at our company only for a short period of time. For example, our chief financial officer and our vice president in charge of corporate development joined us in March 2008 and our vice president in charge of operation joined us in May 2009. As a result of their short tenures with our company, it may be difficult to evaluate our management’s ability to work with one another and with our employees and their effectiveness as a team. We cannot assure you that our new management team will work effectively with one another, as well as with our employees, and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and growth. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC and a newly enacted PRC tax law could adversely affect our overall results of operations. The PRC government has provided various tax incentives to our subsidiary in China. These incentives include income tax exemption and reduced enterprise income tax rates. For example, under the PRC enterprise income tax law effective prior to January 1, 2008, our PRC subsidiary, Universal, as a foreign-invested enterprise established in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, was entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 15% on the income generated by its offices in Shenzhen and an income tax rate of 30% on the income generated by its offices outside of Shenzhen, as compared to the statutory income tax rate of 33%. In addition, Universal was fully exempted from PRC income tax commencing from its first profit-making year, followed by a 50% reduction in PRC income tax for the next two years. As a result, Universal was exempted from PRC income tax for the year ended December 31, 2007 and was entitled to a 50% income tax reduction for each of the years ending December 31, 2008 and 2009. On March 16, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress enacted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, and on December 6, 2007, the PRC State Council issued the Implementation Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Enterprise Income Tax Law and its Implementation Regulations, or the new EIT law, imposes a uniform tax rate of 25% on all PRC enterprises, including foreign-invested enterprises, and eliminates or modifies most of the tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatments available under the previous tax laws and regulations. Under the new EIT law, enterprises that were established before March 16, 2007 and already enjoy preferential tax treatments will (i) in the case of preferential tax rates, continue to enjoy the tax rates which will be gradually increased to the new tax rates within five years from January 1, 2008 or (ii) in the case of preferential tax exemption or reduction for a specified term, 16 Table of Contents continue to enjoy the preferential tax holiday until the expiration of such term. In accordance with a directive issued by the State Council in December 2007, the 15% preferential income tax we enjoyed prior to 2008 will be increased to 18% in 2008, 20% in 2009, 22% in 2010, 24% in 2011 and 25% in 2012. As a result of the discontinuation of the preferential tax treatment and the new EIT law, our effective tax rate could substantially increase from 4.9% in 2007 up to as much as 25% in the near future, which could have a significant adverse effect on our net income. For 2008, our effective tax rate increased to 14.8% mainly due to the expiration on January 1, 2008 of the income tax exemption that Universal had enjoyed in 2007 and the imposition of withholding tax on dividends payable by our PRC subsidiary in 2008. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by our subsidiary in the PRC could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new EIT law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; our foreign ADS holders may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ADSs, if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Under the new EIT law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The British Virgin Islands, where UIAL, our PRC subsidiary’s direct holding company, is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with the PRC. If UIAL is considered a non-resident enterprise, this new 10% withholding tax imposed on our dividend income received from our PRC subsidiary would reduce our net income and have an adverse effect on our operating results. We have accrued this withholding tax for the year ended December 31, 2008. Under the new EIT law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new EIT law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if CMM and UIAL are classified as resident enterprises, the dividends received from our PRC subsidiary may be exempted from income tax. However, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret the PRC tax resident treatment of an offshore company, like us, having indirect ownership interests in PRC enterprises through intermediary holding vehicles. Moreover, under the new EIT law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although CMM is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax will reduce the returns on your investment in our ADSs. 17 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage is limited and we may incur substantial costs as a result of a severe business liability or disruption or other unexpected events, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and generally do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. Business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, but we have determined that the risks of disruption, the cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make it impractical for us to have such insurance. We do not maintain insurance coverage for any kinds of business liabilities or disruptions and would have to bear the costs and expenses associated with any such events out of our own resources. In the course of auditing our combined financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, our independent auditors noted one material weakness and several significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, among which two significant deficiencies still remain. We may incur extra costs in implementing measures to address such deficiencies. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our results of operations or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Prior to our initial public offering, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. Our independent registered public accounting firm has not conducted an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. However, in connection with the audits of our combined financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm identified one “material weakness” and several “significant deficiencies” in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States. The material weakness identified related to our lack of sufficient accounting and tax personnel with appropriate understanding of U.S. GAAP, SEC reporting requirements and tax rules. The significant deficiencies identified include: (i) our failure to establish standard control policies and procedures in connection with the drafting, approval and management of our business contracts, (ii) our lack of a clear and definite agreement to govern the use of personnel and assets between our company and our related parties and (iii) our failure to develop a comprehensive internal control policies and procedures and accounting policies manual or lack of controls to ensure the policies and procedures are followed strictly. As more fully described in “Item 15. Controls and Procedures”, following the identification of material weakness and significant deficiencies, we adopted certain steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2008, we noted that the following two significant deficiencies had not yet been remedied: (i) our failure to establish standard control policies and procedures in connection with the drafting, approval and management of our business contracts and (ii) our failure to develop a comprehensive internal control policies and procedures and accounting policies manual or lack of controls to ensure the policies and procedures are followed strictly. We are in the process of implementing a number of measures to address the deficiencies that have been identified, including (i) hiring additional financial staff with experience in U.S. GAAP, SEC reporting requirements and tax rules, (ii) developing a comprehensive internal control and accounting policies and procedures manual, (iii) devoting additional personnel to the management of our business contracts as well as establishing standard policies and procedures governing contract terms and contract approval process and (iv) establishing internal audit functions to monitor the implementation of our policies and procedures. In April 2009, we engaged an international accounting firm to help us design our internal control process and advise us on our compliance with the financial reporting requirements and standards applicable to us. We will continue to enhance our efforts in this regard, although we may not complete the implementation of these measures in a timely manner. Upon the completion of our initial public offering, we became company subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, will require that we include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 20-F beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. In addition, our independent registered public 18 Table of Contents accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm, after conducting its own independent testing, may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. As we became a public company, our reporting obligations may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. During the course of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, we may identify other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as these standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could harm our operating results and lead to a decline in the trading price of our ADSs. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could expose us to increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets and subject us to potential delisting from the stock exchange on which we list, regulatory investigations and civil or criminal sanctions. We have granted employee stock options under our equity incentive plan and may continue to grant stock options and other share-based compensation in the future. Our net income could be adversely affected as a result. We adopted an equity incentive plan in July 2008 that permits the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units, performance units, performance shares, and other share-based awards to employees, directors and consultants of our company. Under the 2008 equity incentive plan, we may issue options to purchase up to 50,000,000 ordinary shares, plus an annual increase of 2% of the outstanding ordinary shares on the first day of the fiscal year, or such lesser amount of shares as determined by the board of directors. As of June 26, 2009, options to purchase 19,858,500 ordinary shares are outstanding. As a result of these option grants and potential future grants under the plan, we have incurred share-based compensation expenses and expect to incur such expenses in future periods. The amount of these expenses will be based on the fair value of the share-based awards. We have adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R) (revised 2004) for the accounting treatment of our equity incentive plan. As a result, we will have to account for compensation costs for all stock options, including stock options granted to our directors and employees, using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of income in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP, which may have a material adverse effect on our net income. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. Employee stock options or other share-based compensation we may grant in the future may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We may be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on the composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year 2008. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2009, as PFIC status is tested after the close of each year and depends on our assets and income in such year. 19 Table of Contents We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (1) the average percentage value of our gross assets during the taxable year that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the value of our total gross assets or (2) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. The value of our assets for a taxable year equals the sum of our average market capitalization, which is our share price multiplied by the total number of our outstanding shares, and our average liabilities over that taxable year. Accordingly, we would be a PFIC for the taxable year 2009 if the value of our assets for the taxable year is not more than twice the average value of our cash, cash equivalents and other assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares and you are a U.S. Holder (as defined under “Item 10. Additional Information Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation”), our U.S. shareholders may become subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liabilities and special U.S. federal income tax reporting requirements. For more information on the U.S. federal income tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, see “Item 10. Additional Information Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Substantially all of our assets are located in and all of our revenues are sourced from the PRC. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree by political, economic and social conditions in the PRC generally and by continued economic growth in the PRC as a whole. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over the PRC’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in the PRC, which could in turn reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The PRC government also regulates television broadcasts, including the amount of broadcast time that may be set aside for advertisements. Changes in these regulations, and particularly any reduction in the amount of broadcast time that may be set aside for advertisements, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. 20 Table of Contents Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which legal decisions have limited value as precedents. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in the PRC. Our PRC operating subsidiary, Universal, is a foreign-invested enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. Universal is a privately owned company and is subject to various PRC laws and regulations that are generally applicable to companies in the PRC. These laws and regulations are still evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy in the PRC legal system than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. The approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, may be required in connection with our initial public offering; the failure to obtain this approval, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and reputation as well as the trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the CSRC and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rules, among other things, include provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for the purpose of an overseas listing of securities in a PRC company obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by special purpose vehicles. The CSRC approval procedures require the filing of an application and supporting documents with the CSRC. The application of the M&A Rules with respect to our initial public offering remains unclear. Our PRC counsel has advised us that, because we are owned by non-PRC residents, our company is not viewed as a special purpose vehicle that is subject to the M&A Rules, thus we are not required to apply to the CSRC for approval. However, if prior CSRC approval is required but not obtained, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. Any uncertainties or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. The M&A Rules set forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. The M&A Rules, among other things, set forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Part of our growth strategy includes acquiring complementary businesses or assets. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our 21 Table of Contents ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. In addition, in the future, if any of our acquisitions were subject to the M&A Rules and were found not to be in compliance with the requirements of the M&A Rules, relevant PRC regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or employees to personal liabilities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to increase its registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, or may otherwise expose us to liability under PRC law. SAFE has promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations may apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. SAFE regulations require PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update his registration with the relevant SAFE branches, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving increase or decrease of capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above may result in liability for the PRC shareholders and the PRC subsidiary under PRC law for foreign exchange registration evasion. There is uncertainty concerning under what circumstances a foreign national can be classified as a PRC resident. Mr. Shengcheng Wang, our controlling shareholder, is a Canadian citizen who spends a certain amount of his time in China each year for business purposes. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel that Mr. Wang is not subject to SAFE registration. However, the PRC government authorities may interpret Mr. Wang’s status differently or Mr. Wang’s status may change in the future if Mr. Wang extends his stay in China. Moreover, we may not be fully informed of the identities of the beneficial owners of our company and we cannot assure you that all of our PRC resident beneficial owners will comply with the SAFE regulations. The failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, and prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Employee Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. Our PRC Subsidiary and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC employees fail to comply with such regulation, we or our employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Regulation—SAFE Regulations on Offshore Investment by PRC Residents and Employee Stock Options.” 22 Table of Contents We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly owned operating subsidiary to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow money or pay dividends. As a holding company, we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Universal for our cash requirements, including funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If Universal incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Universal only out of its retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, Universal is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund a statutory surplus reserve. This reserve is not distributable as dividends until the accumulated amount of such reserve has exceeded 50% of its registered capital. As a result, Universal is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of December 31, 2008, we had combined restricted net assets in the amount of RMB 75.0 million (US$11.0 million), consisting of RMB 50.0 million (US$7.3 million) of registered capital and RMB 25.0 million (US$3.7 million) of statutory reserves, that were not available for distribution due to these PRC laws and regulations. Limitation on the ability of Universal to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to borrow money outside of the PRC or pay dividends to holders of our ADSs. Also see “—Risks Related to Our Business and Industry—The dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new EIT law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; our foreign ADS holders may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ADSs, if we are classified as a PRC ‘resident enterprise.’” PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiary. In order to utilize the proceeds of our initial public offering, we, as an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiary, may use the proceeds of our initial public offering to make loans to our PRC subsidiary, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiary. Any loans to our PRC subsidiary are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to finance the activities of Universal, a foreign-invested enterprise, cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiary by means of capital contributions. Any additional capital contributions to Universal must be approved by MOFCOM. We cannot assure you that we can obtain the necessary government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to Universal. If we fail to timely receive such registrations or approvals, or at all, our ability to use the proceeds of our initial public offering and to capitalize our PRC operations would be adversely affected, which in turn would adversely and materially affect our business prospects and growth plan. Restrictions on currency exchange under PRC laws may limit our ability to convert cash derived from our operating activities into foreign currencies and may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under the relevant foreign exchange restrictions in the PRC, conversion of the Renminbi is permitted, without the need for SAFE approval, for “current account” transactions, which includes dividends, trade, and service-related foreign exchange transactions. Conversion of the Renminbi for “capital account” transactions, which includes foreign direct investment and loans, is still subject to significant limitations and requires approvals from and registration with SAFE and other PRC regulatory authorities. We cannot assure you that SAFE or other PRC governmental 23 Table of Contents authorities will not further limit, or eliminate, our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange in the PRC may limit our ability to convert cash derived from our operating activities into foreign currencies to fund expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. If the foreign exchange restrictions in the PRC prevent us from obtaining U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies as required, we may not be able to pay dividends in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Furthermore, foreign exchange transactions under the capital account transactions could affect Universal’s ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. As substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from our initial public offering will be denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds and our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars following our initial public offering. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Renminbi is reported to be pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we pay after our initial public offering, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Only limited hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, namely, the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not merit. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to epidemics, which may severely disrupt our business and operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by epidemics. For example, from December 2002 to June 2003, PRC and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. During May and June of 2003, the PRC government closed many businesses in the PRC to prevent transmission of SARS. Since 2003, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of the PRC, including a number of confirmed human cases and deaths. In April and May 2009, the swine flu that originated in Mexico also started to spread to other countries, with a few reported cases in the PRC. Any actual or threatened outbreak of epidemics in the PRC may, among other things, significantly disrupt our and our clients’ business operations and severely restrict the level of economic activities in affected areas, which will in turn reduce the demand for advertising services. 24 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by unforeseen events or natural disasters that are beyond our control. Our business may be adversely affected by certain events or natural disasters beyond our control, such as the magnitude 8.0 earthquake that struck Sichuan Province on May 12, 2008. Many television stations in China significantly changed their programming after the earthquake to broadcast developments and rescue operations relating to the earthquake. All television channels in China ceased to broadcast any advertisements during a three-day national mourning period, from May 19, 2008 to May 21, 2008. In addition, certain television advertisements with content that was deemed to be inappropriate for broadcast during coverage of this tragic event were suspended in May and June 2008. Any natural disasters or unforeseen events in the future may cause similar changes to the programming and broadcasting schedules of television stations in China and may adversely affect the broadcast of our clients’ advertisements, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. For the period from August 4, 2008 to June 26, 2009, the trading price of our ADSs on the NYSE Arca has ranged from a low of US$1.20 per ADS to a high of US$6.85 per ADS. This may happen because of broad market and industry factors, like the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in the PRC that have listed their securities in the United States. A number of PRC companies have listed or are in the process of listing their securities on U.S. stock markets. The securities of some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these PRC companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors toward PRC companies listed in the United States in general and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for factors specific to our own operations, including the following: • variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow; • announcements of new investments, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or joint ventures; • announcements of new services and expansions by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding equity securities or sales of additional equity securities; • potential litigation or regulatory investigations; and • fluctuations in market prices for our services. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot assure you that these factors will not occur in the future. We may fail to meet the minimum requirement for the market value of a listed company’s publicly held shares under the continued listing standards of NYSE Arca. We were notified by the NYSE Regulation, Inc. on April 27, 2009 that as of April 24, 2009, our market value of publicly held shares was calculated to be approximately US$9.4 million, which was below the minimum requirement of US$15.0 million for continued listing on NYSE Arca under Rule 5.5(b) of the NYSE Arca 25 Table of Contents Equities Rules. From April 27, 2009 to June 26, 2009, our ADSs have been trading in the range of US$2.15 to US$6.85 per ADS, which made the market value of our publicly held shares approximately US$9.4 million to US$30.1 million, as calculated in accordance with the NYSE Arca Equities Rules. If the trading price of our ADS drops significantly in the future, we may fail to meet the minimum requirement for the market value of a listed company’s publicly held shares under the continued listing standards and thus may be delisted from the NYSE Arca. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of June 26, 2009, we had 716,375,000 ordinary shares outstanding, including 216,375,000 ordinary shares represented by 7,212,500 ADSs and 19,858,500 ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of options. All ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining ordinary shares outstanding will be available for sale and, in the case of the ordinary shares that certain option holders will receive when they exercise their share options, until the later of (i) the first anniversary of the grant date, and (ii) the expiration of any relevant lock-up periods, subject to volume and other restrictions that may be applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We have adopted our third amended and restated articles of association, which became effective immediately upon the completion of our initial public offering. Our new articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2007 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding, on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in 26 Table of Contents some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States. Some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. For a discussion of significant differences. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement, and you may not be able to exercise your right to vote your ordinary shares. As a holder of our ADSs, you will only be able to exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. You will not be able to directly exercise your right to vote with respect to the underlying shares unless you withdraw the shares. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is 14 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for their manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may have no legal remedy if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. 27 Table of Contents The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, if you do not vote, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • the voting at the meeting is to be made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, except under the circumstances described above. This may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares and you may not receive any value for them, if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities underlying our ADSs, after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed under an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary may also determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may cause a material decline in the value of our ADSs. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parities, and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. 28 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American depositary receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our share register or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 