ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and results of operations. As a result of the risk set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risk discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business Our inability to attract and retain qualified executive search consultants would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain executive search consultants who possess the skills and experience necessary to fulfill our clients’ needs. In addition, our ability to grow the Company is dependent on increasing our overall number of qualified executive search consultants. Our ability to hire and retain qualified executive search consultants could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels relative to our competitors, modifications of our compensation philosophy or competitor hiring programs. If we cannot attract, hire and retain qualified executive search consultants, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents A significant or prolonged economic downturn would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by general economic conditions and the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. On an aggregate basis, our clients may be less likely to hire as many senior executives during economic downturns and periods of economic uncertainty. To the extent our clients delay or reduce hiring senior executives due to an economic downturn or economic uncertainty, our results of operations will be adversely affected, as evidenced by our results of operations for 2008 and 2009. During the recent economic downturn our net revenues significantly decreased from $116.6 million in 2007 to $73.9 million in 2009. A continued economic downturn or period of economic uncertainty and a decline in the level of business activity of our clients would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global economic developments and conditions in the geographic regions and industries from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our services is affected by global economic conditions and the general level of economic activity in the geographic regions and industries in which we operate. The concentration of our business in certain geographic regions and/or industries exacerbates this risk. For example, over forty-one percent of our net revenue in 2010 was derived from providing our services to the financial services industry. When conditions in the global economy, including the credit markets, deteriorate, or economic activity slows, companies may hire fewer permanent employees and some companies, as a cost-saving measure, may choose to rely on their own human resources departments rather than third-party search firms to find talent. Certain of the geographic regions and industries in which we operate have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. As evidenced by our net revenue results for 2009, our business was directly and negatively affected by the global economic downturn. If the national or global economy or credit market conditions in general deteriorate, or the demand for our services in a significant industry decreases, our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We depend substantially on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals, our business would be adversely affected. Our continued growth and success depend in large part on the managerial and leadership skills of our senior management team, particularly Brian M. Sullivan, our chief executive officer, and David C. Nocifora, our chief operating and chief financial officer. We rely on our senior management team to market our business, manage our globally dispersed business operations and hire and retain qualified executive search consultants. The success of our growth efforts depends on significant management attention to integration and coordination. The loss of the services of either member of our senior management team would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no reason to believe that we will lose the services of either of these individuals in the foreseeable future; however, we currently have no effective replacement for either of these individuals due to their experience, reputation in the industry and significant role in our operations. If we are unable to prevent our executive search consultants from taking our clients or our executive search consultants with them to a competitor our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain strong, long-term relationships with our clients. Although we work on building these relationships between our firm and our clients, in many cases, one or two executive search consultants have primary responsibility for a client relationship. Additionally, a limited number of executive search consultants have primary responsibility for a disproportionate share of our business. In 2010, for example, our top three executive search consultants had primary responsibility for generating business equal to approximately eleven percent of our net revenues, and our top ten executive search consultants had primary responsibility for generating business equal to approximately thirty percent of our net revenues. Since we do not enter into non-competition agreements with our executive search consultants, our executive search consultants are not contractually prohibited from leaving or joining one of our competitors and some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of us. We may also lose clients if the departing executive search consultant has widespread name recognition or a reputation as a specialist in executing searches in a specific industry or management function. Although our employment contracts prohibit former executive search consultants from soliciting any of our employees for a period of one year, we may lose additional executive search consultants if they choose to join the departing executive search consultant at another executive search firm. If we fail to limit departing executive search consultants from moving business or recruiting our executive search consultants to a competitor, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain our professional reputation and brand name our business would be adversely affected. We depend on our overall professional reputation and brand name recognition to secure new engagements and hire qualified executive search consultants. In 2007, we changed our brand from Christian & Timbers to CTPartners. While we believe we have established our brand in the market, a number of our competitors have more established and better name recognition than us. Our success also depends on the individual reputations of our executive search consultants. We obtain many of our new engagements from existing clients or from referrals by those clients. A client who is dissatisfied with our work can adversely affect our ability to secure new engagements. If our reputation is negatively affected, including poor performance or our brand awareness does not continue to increase, we may experience difficulties in competing successfully for both new engagements and qualified executive search consultants. Failure to maintain our professional reputation and brand name could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because existing clients may restrict us from recruiting their employees we may be unable, or be perceived by prospective clients as being unable, to fill existing or prospective executive search assignments, and prospective clients may not engage us, impeding our growth. Clients frequently require us to refrain from recruiting certain of their employees when conducting executive searches on behalf of other clients. These restrictions generally remain in effect for no more than one year following the commencement of an engagement. However, the specific duration and scope of the off-limits arrangements depend on the length of the client relationship, the frequency with which the client engages us to perform searches and the potential for future business with the client. If a prospective client believes that we are overly restricted by these off-limits arrangements from recruiting the employees of our existing clients, these prospective clients may not engage us to perform their executive searches, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, it would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global executive search industry is extremely competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with other large global executive search firms and smaller specialty firms. Some of our competitors possess greater financial and other resources, greater name recognition and longer operating histories than we do in particular markets or practice areas. Additionally, specialty firms can focus on regional or functional markets or on particular industries. To the extent our competitors are better capitalized and have access to greater financial and other resources, these competitors may be better positioned to attract executive search consultants, expand their business and weather any economic downturns. There are limited barriers to entry into the search industry and new search firms continue to enter the market. Many executive search firms that have a smaller client base may be subject to fewer off-limits arrangements. In addition, our clients or prospective clients may decide to perform executive searches using in-house personnel. Finally, competitors sometimes reduce their fees in order to attract clients and increase market share. Because we typically do not discount our fees, we may experience some loss of net revenue. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. Our inability to meet these competitive challenges would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on information management systems and any interruptions or loss of key client data could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information. To achieve our goals, we must continue to improve, upgrade and invest in our information management systems. We may be unable to license, design and implement, in a cost-effective and timely manner, improved information systems that allow us to compete effectively. In addition, business process reengineering efforts may result in a change in software platforms and programs. In addition to the cost of licensing, designing and implementing new information systems, such efforts may present transitional problems. Finally, although our data center is maintained at a third-party location, if we experience any interruptions or loss in our information processing capabilities or loss of key client data, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face the risk of liability in the services we perform and significant uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the executive search process. A client could assert a claim for violations of off-limits arrangements, breaches of confidentiality agreements or professional malpractice. In addition, candidates and client employees could assert claims against us. Possible claims include failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate’s employment search or for discrimination or other violations of employment laws or professional malpractice. In various countries, we are subject to data protection laws impacting the processing of candidate information. We maintain professional liability insurance in amounts and coverage that we believe are adequate, however, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will cover all claims or that coverage will always be available or sufficient. Significant uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully integrate executive search consultants may have an adverse effect on our business. Much of our net revenue growth since 2004 is due to adding additional executive search consultants in different geographic locations. We expect to continue to grow by, among other things, selectively adding executive search consultants. We may not, however, be able to identify appropriate executive search consultants, consummate such additions on satisfactory terms or integrate the acquired practices effectively and profitably into our existing operations. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to complete the integration of executive search consultants successfully into our operations. Failure to successfully integrate recently hired executive search consultants and complementary practices may adversely affect our profitability by creating operating inefficiencies that could increase operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues and reduce operating income. Further, the clients of recently hired executive search consultants may choose not to move their business to us. We may not be able to manage effectively our expanding operations, which may impede our growth and/or negatively impact our performance. Since 2004, we have experienced a period of rapid growth. This places a significant strain on our managerial and operational resources. Our number of employees grew from eighty-eight as of December 31, 2004, to 336 as of December 31, 2010, mainly as a result of adding executive search consultants and staff supporting such executive search consultants. To accommodate our future expected growth, we may need to implement new or upgraded operating and financial systems, procedures and controls throughout many different locations. These efforts may not be successful. Additionally, opening new office locations may strain our financial and management resources. Our failure to expand and integrate these systems, procedures and office locations efficiently could cause our expenses to increase disproportionately and our net revenues to decline or grow more slowly than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our multinational operations may be adversely affected by economic, social, political and legal risks. We generate substantial net revenue outside the United States. We offer our services through seven locations outside the U.S. (excluding our associated offices in Latin America). We are exposed to the risk of changes in economic, social, political and legal conditions inherent in international operations, which could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we conduct business in countries where the legal systems, local laws and trade practices are unsettled and evolving. Commercial laws in these countries are sometimes vague, arbitrary and inconsistently applied. Under these circumstances, it is difficult for us to determine at all times the exact requirements of such local laws. If we fail to comply with local laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In addition, the global nature of our operations poses challenges to our management as well as our financial and accounting systems. Failure to meet these challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant currency fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could adversely impact our operating income. With operations in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, we conduct business using various currencies. In 2010, thirty-six percent of our fee revenue was generated outside of North America. As we typically transact business in the local currency, our profitability may be impacted by the translation of foreign currency financial statements into U.S. dollars. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to timely align our cost structure with net revenue could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must ensure that our costs and workforce continue to be in proportion to demand for our services. In particular, local laws in some of the countries we operate in make it more difficult and time consuming to appropriately adjust staffing levels. Failure to timely align our cost structure and headcount with net revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to access credit, or if we are only able to do so at significantly higher costs, could limit our ability to grow and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the current economic environment, banks may strictly enforce the terms of our credit agreement. Although we are currently in compliance with the financial covenants of our revolving credit facility, a further deterioration of economic conditions may negatively impact our business resulting in our failure to comply with these covenants in the future, which could limit our ability to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility. We may not be able to secure alternative financing or 9 Table of Contents may only be able to do so at significantly higher costs, and this could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. Although our common stock is traded on the NYSE AMEX exchange, it may remain illiquid, or “thinly traded,” which can increase volatility in the share price and make it difficult for investors to buy or sell shares in the public market without materially affecting the quoted share price. Further, investors seeking to buy or sell a certain quantity of our shares in the public market may be unable to do so within one or more trading days. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for holders to sell their shares in the market at any given time at prevailing prices. Broad market and industry factors also may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause wide fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • general economic conditions; • actual or anticipated variations in our financial condition and operating results; • overall conditions or trends in our industry; • addition or loss of significant clients; • changes in the market valuations of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • announcements of lawsuits filed against us; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities or industry analysts that elect to follow our common stock; and • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders, including sales by our directors and officers. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, whether or not we are successful in such litigation. Our principal stockholders may exert substantial influence over us and may exercise their control in a manner adverse to your interests. Our senior management and executive search consultants own an aggregate of 4,523,075 shares, or sixty-six percent of our outstanding common stock. More specifically, seven members of our senior management and executive search consultants own, collectively, 3,311,972 shares, or forty-eight percent, of our outstanding common stock. Because a limited number of persons may exert substantial influence over us, transactions could be difficult or impossible to complete without the support of those persons. It is possible that these persons will exercise control over us in a manner adverse to your interests. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell 10 Table of Contents additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2010, we had 7,176,920 shares of common stock outstanding. We, each of our directors and executive officers and substantially all of our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, have agreed, for a period of 180 days after the date of the prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with our initial public offering, which was December 7, 2010, not to (i) offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer any shares of common stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequences of ownership of common stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for any shares of common stock, without prior written consent of William Blair & Company, L.L.C., other than shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering, under our 2010 equity incentive plan or upon exercise of stock options granted pursuant to our 2010 equity incentive plan. Additionally, our directors, executive officers and substantially all of our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, have agreed with the underwriters of our initial public offering, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell any shares of our common stock or securities convertible into, or exercisable, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock, without the prior written consent of William Blair & Company, L.L.C., except as follows: • commencing December 7, 2011, each such person may sell up to one-third of the shares of common stock held by such person as of December 7, 2010; • commencing December 7, 2012, each such person may sell up to two-thirds of the shares of common stock held by such person as of December 7, 2010; and • commencing December 7, 2013, each such person may sell one hundred percent of the shares of common stock held by such person as of December 7, 2010. After the expiration of the lock-up agreements, up to 4,523,075 restricted securities may be sold into the public market in the future without registration under the Securities Act to the extent permitted under Rule 144. Of these restricted securities, 1,507,691 shares will be available for sale on December 7, 2011, 1,507,692 shares will be available for sale on December 7, 2012, and 1,507,692 shares will be available for sale on December 7, 2013, in each case subject to volume or other limits under Rule 144. Furthermore, 1,000,000 shares are available for grant under our 2010 equity incentive plan and, if issued or granted, will become eligible for sale in the public market once permitted by provisions of various vesting agreements, lock-up agreements and Rule 144, as applicable. Additionally, up to 250,830 shares of common stock will be issued upon the vesting (108,784 shares of common stock will vest in 2011, 103,946 shares of common stock will vest in 2012, and 38,100 shares of common stock will vest in 2013) of certain grants made in connection with the employment of certain executive search consultants. If these additional shares of common stock are, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock, or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these reports or analysts. If any of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our stock, or if our operating results do not meet the analysts’ expectations, our stock price could decline. Moreover, if any of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish regular reports on our business, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, as a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our earnings in the foreseeable future will be used in the operation and growth of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is currently limited by the covenants of our credit facility and may be further restricted by the 11 Table of Contents terms of any future debt or preferred securities. Accordingly, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company may be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. The market price for our common stock may never exceed, and may fall below, the price that you pay for our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include: • a board of directors whose members can only be dismissed for cause; • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; • the limitation on who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which would increase the number of outstanding shares and could thwart a takeover attempt; and • the requirement of at least seventy-five percent of the outstanding common stock to amend any of the foregoing provisions. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of fifteen percent of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 