ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.We have identified the following material risks to our business. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those risks we currently view to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments.We are a highly leveraged company. As of March 31, 2012 we had $2,423.7 million of outstanding indebtedness. In April 2012, we completed our initial public offering and used a portion of the proceeds to retire $300.0 million of senior subordinated notes, reducing our outstanding indebtedness to $2,123.7 million. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, and currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements may not be realized on schedule, or at all. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt service and other obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. Furthermore, Apollo has no obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing and we therefore may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our substantial indebtedness could also have other important consequences with respect to our ability to manage our business successfully, including the following: •it may limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; •it may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing our senior notes and our other indebtedness; •a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness and so will not be available for other purposes; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; •we are and will continue to be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •it may make us more vulnerable to further downturns in our business or the economy; •it may restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; and •it, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because a portion of the debt under our senior secured credit facilities is unhedged variable-rate debt. For the last several quarters, interest rates have been subject to extreme volatility, which may intensify this risk. Also, we may still incur significantly more debt, which could intensify the risks described above. For more information, see Part II Item 8, Note 10 - Long-Term Debt.Weak and volatile economic and financial market conditions have impacted our business operations and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Weak and volatile global economic and financial market conditions in recent years have affected our business operations and continuing weakness or a further downturn may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Economic conditions in the end-markets, businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume for a prolonged period of time, which would have a negative impact on our future results of operations. Also, a weak recovery could prolong, or resume, the negative effects we have experienced in the past. 14Table of ContentsFor example, sales to the construction industry are driven by trends in commercial and residential construction, housing starts and trends in residential repair and remodeling. Consumer confidence, mortgage rates, credit standards and availability and income levels play a significant role in driving demand in the residential construction, repair and remodeling sector. A prolonged or further drop in consumer confidence, continued restrictions in the credit market or an increase in mortgage rates, credit standards or unemployment could delay the recovery of commercial and residential construction levels and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. This may express itself in the form of substantial downward pressure on product pricing and our profit margins, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. Additionally, many of our products are used in the energy, mining and cement and aggregates markets. With the recent increases and volatility in commodity prices, certain customers may defer or cancel anticipated projects or expansions until such time as these projects will be profitable based on the underlying cost of commodities compared to the cost of the project. Volatility and disruption of financial markets, as in recent years, could limit the ability of our customers to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders, reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future or impact their ability to pay their receivables. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing or eliminating the amount of trade credit available to us. Demand for our Water Management products depends on availability of financing.Many customers who purchase our Water Management products depend on third-party financing. There have been significant disruptions in the availability of financing on reasonable terms. Fluctuations in prevailing interest rates affect the availability and cost of financing to our customers. Given recent market conditions, some lenders and institutional investors have significantly reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. The lack of availability or increased cost of credit could lead to decreased construction, which would result in a reduction in demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our Water Management business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive.We operate in highly fragmented markets within the Process & Motion Control platform. As a result, we compete against numerous companies. Some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain of the markets in which we operate, and some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Competition in our business lines is based on a number of considerations, including product performance, cost of transportation in the distribution of our Process & Motion Control products, brand reputation, quality of client service and support, product availability and price. Additionally, some of our larger, more sophisticated customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to increase their efficiency. If we are not selected to become one of these preferred providers, we may lose access to certain sections of the markets in which we compete. Our customers increasingly demand a broad product range and we must continue to develop our expertise in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, customer service and support, marketing and our distribution networks. We may also have to adjust the prices of some of our Process & Motion Control products to stay competitive. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or that we will maintain our competitive position within each of the markets we serve. Within the Water Management platform, we compete against both large international and national rivals, as well as many regional competitors. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Significant competition in any of the markets in which the Water Management platform operates could result in substantial downward pressure on product pricing and our profit margins, thereby adversely affecting the Water Management financial results. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase the current market share of our products successfully in the future. 15Table of ContentsOur business depends upon general economic conditions and other market factors beyond our control, and we serve customers in cyclical industries. As a result, our operating results could further be negatively affected during any continued or future economic downturns.Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve in the U.S. and the global economy generally. Some of the industries we serve are highly cyclical, such as the aerospace, energy and industrial equipment industries. We have undertaken cost reduction programs as well as diversified our markets to mitigate the effect of downturns in economic conditions; however, such programs may be unsuccessful. Any sustained weakness in demand or downturn or uncertainty in the economy generally, such as the recent unprecedented volatility in the capital and credit markets, would materially reduce our net sales and profitability. The demand in the water management industry is influenced by new construction activity, both residential and commercial, and the level of repair and remodeling activity. The level of new construction and repair and remodeling activity is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including the overall strength of the U.S. economy (including confidence in the U.S. economy by our customers), the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, institutional building activity, the age of existing housing stock, unemployment rates and interest rates. Any declines in commercial, institutional or residential construction starts or demand for replacement building and home improvement products may impact us in a material adverse manner and there can be no assurance that any such adverse effects would not continue for a prolonged period of time.The loss of any significant customer could adversely affect our business.We have certain customers that are significant to our business. During fiscal 2012, our top 20 customers accounted for approximately 28.9% of our consolidated net sales, and our largest customer accounted for 7.3% of our consolidated net sales. Our competitors may adopt more aggressive sales policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do, which could result in a loss of customers. The loss of one or more of our major customers or deterioration in our relationship with any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increases in the cost of our raw materials, in particular bar steel, brass, castings, copper, forgings, high-performance engineered plastic, plate steel, resin, sheet steel and zinc, as well as petroleum products, or the loss of a substantial number of our suppliers, could adversely affect our financial condition.We depend on third parties for the raw materials used in our manufacturing processes. We generally purchase our raw materials on the open market on a purchase order basis. These contracts generally have had one to five year terms and have contained competitive and benchmarking clauses intended to ensure competitive pricing. While we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials, our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations, delays in the delivery of and potential unavailability of our raw materials. Any such price fluctuations or delays, if material, could harm our profitability or operations. In addition, the loss of a substantial number of suppliers could result in material cost increases or reduce our production capacity. In addition, prices for petroleum products and other carbon-based fuel products have also significantly increased recently. These price increases, and consequent increases in the cost of electricity and for products for which petroleum-based products are components or used in part of the process of manufacture, may substantially increase our costs for transportation, fuel, component parts and manufacturing. We may not be able to recoup the costs of these increases by adjusting our prices. We do not typically enter into hedge transactions to reduce our exposure to price risks and cannot assure you that we would be successful in passing on any attendant costs if these risks were to materialize. In addition, if we are unable to continue to purchase our required quantities of raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or if we are unable to maintain or enter into our purchasing contracts for our larger commodities, our business operations could be disrupted and our profitability could be impacted in a material adverse manner.16Table of ContentsWe rely on independent distributors. Termination of one or more of our relationships with any of those independent distributors or an increase in the distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.In addition to our own direct sales force, we depend on the services of independent distributors to sell our Process & Motion Control products and provide service and aftermarket support to our OEMs and end-users. We rely on an extensive distribution network, with nearly 2,600 distributor locations nationwide; however, for fiscal 2012, approximately 21% of our Process & Motion Control net sales were generated through sales to three of our key independent distributors, the largest of which accounted for 12% of Process & Motion Control net sales. Rather than serving as passive conduits for delivery of product, our industrial distributors are active participants in the overall competitive dynamic in the Process & Motion Control industry. Industrial distributors play a significant role in determining which of our Process & Motion Control products are stocked at the branch locations, and hence are most readily accessible to aftermarket buyers, and the price at which these products are sold. Almost all of the distributors with whom we transact business also offer competitors’ products and services to our customers. Within Water Management, we depend on a network of several hundred independent sales representatives and approximately 90 third-party warehouses to distribute our products; however, for fiscal 2012, our three key independent distributors generated approximately 26% of our Water Management net sales with the largest accounting for 17% of Water Management net sales.Our Process & Motion Control and Water Management distributorship sales are made on terms that we believe are consistent with customary standards in our industry. Our agreements with our distributors are generally non-exclusive and do not require minimum volumes of purchases by the distributors, with prices based on expected margins and all sales subject to credit approval; they generally contain a limited warranty against material and workmanship defects and provide for a freight allowance when minimum quantities are met. In addition, certain key distributors are on rebate programs, including our top three Water Management distributors.The loss of one of our key distributors or of a substantial number of our other distributors or an increase in the distributors' sales of our competitors' products to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers default in their obligations to us.Our contracted backlog is comprised of future orders for our products from a broad number of customers. Defaults by any of the customers that have placed significant orders with us could have a significant adverse effect on our net sales, profitability and cash flow. Our customers may in the future default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons deriving from the current general economic environment. More specifically, the recession and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business generally. Accordingly, the recession and tightening of credit increases the risks associated with our backlog. If a customer defaults on its obligations to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Approximately 6% of our backlog at March 31, 2012 is currently scheduled to ship beyond fiscal 2013.We are subject to risks associated with changing technology and manufacturing techniques, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage.The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continuously evolve our existing products and introduce new products to meet customers' needs in the industries we serve. Our products are characterized by stringent performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. If we fail to meet these requirements, our business could be at risk. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of a number of factors, including product quality, price competitiveness, technical and manufacturing expertise, development and product design capability, new product innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers' changing specifications with respect to these criteria. We cannot assure you that we will be able to address technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our businesses. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we can adequately protect any of our own technological developments to produce a sustainable competitive advantage. 17Table of ContentsIf we lose certain of our key associates or management personnel, our business may be adversely affected.Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly-skilled management, sales, marketing and engineering personnel. Competition for these persons in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could materially suffer. In addition, we cannot assure you that these individuals will continue their employment with us. If any of these key personnel were to leave our company, it could be difficult to replace them, and our business could be materially harmed.We may incur significant costs for environmental compliance and/or to address liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.Our operations and facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pollution and the protection of the environment, health and safety, including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes and other materials, and the remediation of contaminated sites. A failure by us to comply with applicable requirements or the permits required for our operations could result in civil or criminal fines, penalties, enforcement actions, third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. Moreover, if applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, become more stringent in the future, we could incur capital or operating costs beyond those currently anticipated. Some environmental laws and regulations, including the federal Superfund law, impose requirements to investigate and remediate contamination on present and former owners and operators of facilities and sites, and on potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) for sites to which such parties may have sent waste for disposal. Such liability can be imposed without regard to fault and, under certain circumstances, may be joint and several, resulting in one PRP being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. We are currently conducting or are otherwise involved in investigations and/or cleanup of known or potential contamination at several of our current and former facilities and have been named as a PRP at several third party Superfund sites. The discovery of additional contamination, including at acquired facilities or operations, the imposition of more stringent cleanup requirements, disputes with our insurers or indemnitors or the insolvency of other responsible parties could require significant expenditures by us in excess of our current reserves. In addition, we occasionally evaluate various alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closures. Investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closures of facilities may trigger remediation requirements that are not currently applicable to our operating facilities. We may also face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to hazardous substances used or disposed of by us, that may be contained within our current or former products, or that are present in the soil or groundwater at our current or former facilities. Significant costs could be incurred in connection with such liabilities. We believe that, subject to various terms and conditions, we have certain indemnification protection from Invensys plc (“Invensys”) with respect to certain environmental liabilities that may have occurred prior to the acquisition by The Carlyle Group (the “Carlyle Acquisition”) of the capital stock of 16 entities comprising the Rexnord group of Invensys, including certain liabilities associated with our Downers Grove, Illinois facility and with respect to personal injury claims for alleged exposure to hazardous materials associated with such facility. We also believe that, subject to various terms and conditions, we have certain indemnification protection from Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation (“Hamilton Sundstrand”), with respect to certain environmental liabilities that may have arisen from events occurring at Falk facilities prior to our acquisition of Falk, including certain liabilities associated with personal injury claims for alleged exposure to hazardous materials. If Invensys or Hamilton Sundstrand becomes unable to, or otherwise does not, comply with its indemnity obligations, or if certain contamination or other liability for which we are obligated is not subject to such indemnities or historic insurance coverage, we could incur significant unanticipated costs. As a result, it is possible that we will not be able to recover pursuant to these indemnities a substantial portion, if any, of the costs that we may incur which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Certain subsidiaries are subject to numerous asbestos claims.Certain subsidiaries are co-defendants in various lawsuits filed in a number of jurisdictions throughout the United States alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain components of our products. The uncertainties of litigation and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance and indemnification coverage make it difficult to accurately predict the ultimate financial effect of these claims. In the event our insurance or indemnification coverage becomes insufficient to cover our potential financial exposure, or the actual number or value of asbestos-related claims differs materially from our existing estimates, we could incur material costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Part II Item 8, Note 18 - Commitments and Contingencies to our audited financial statements of this Annual Report.18Table of ContentsCertain Water Management subsidiaries are subject to a number of class action claims.Certain Water Management subsidiaries are defendants in a class action lawsuit pending in U.S. federal court in Minnesota and in a number of putative class action lawsuits pending in various other U.S. federal courts. The plaintiffs in these suits represent or seek to represent a class of plaintiffs alleging damages due to the alleged failure or anticipated failure of the Zurn brass crimp fittings on the PEX plumbing systems in homes and other structures. The complaints assert various causes of action, including but not limited to negligence, breach of warranty, fraud, and violations of the Magnuson-Moss Act and certain state consumer protection laws, and seek declaratory and injunctive relief, and damages (including punitive damages). We may not be successful in defending such claims, and the resulting liability could be substantial and may not be covered by insurance. Our insurance carriers currently are funding our defense in these proceedings; however, they have filed suit for a declaratory judgment in Florida state court challenging their coverage obligations with respect to certain classes of claims. The Florida suit currently is stayed, pending resolution of the underlying claims. As a result of the preceding, although we continue to vigorously defend ourselves in the various court proceedings and continue to vigorously pursue insurance coverage, the uncertainties of litigation, and insurance coverage and collection, as well as the actual number or value of claims, may subject us to substantial liability that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Part II Item 8, Note 18 - Commitments and Contingencies to our audited financial statements of this Annual Report.Weather could adversely affect the demand for products in our Water Management platform and decrease its net sales.Demand for our Water Management products is primarily driven by commercial construction activity, remodeling and retro-fit opportunities, and to a lesser extent, new home starts as well as water and wastewater infrastructure expansion for municipal, industrial and hydropower applications. Weather is an important variable affecting financial performance as it significantly impacts construction activity. Spring and summer months in the United States and Europe represent the main construction seasons. Adverse weather conditions, such as prolonged periods of cold or rain, blizzards, hurricanes and other severe weather patterns, could delay or halt construction and remodeling activity, which could have a negative affect on our business. For example, an unusually severe winter can lead to reduced construction activity and magnify the seasonal decline in our Water Management net sales and earnings during the winter months. In addition, a prolonged winter season can delay construction and remodeling plans and hamper the typical seasonal increase in net sales and earnings during the spring months. Our international operations are subject to uncertainties, which could adversely affect our operating results.Our business is subject to certain risks associated with doing business internationally. Approximately 33% of our total net sales in fiscal 2012 originated outside of the United States. The portion of our net sales and operations that is outside of the United States has increased in recent years, and may further increase as a result of internal growth and/or acquisition activity. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors relating to international operations, including: •fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly fluctuations in the Euro against the U.S. dollar;•exchange controls;•compliance with export controls and trade compliance regulations;•tariffs or other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;•changes in tax laws;•interest rates;•changes in regulatory requirements;•differing labor regulations;•requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;•restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions;•restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; and•exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 19Table of ContentsWe may be unable to identify potential acquisition candidates, or to realize the intended benefits of future or past acquisitions. We cannot assure you that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified and acquired in the future, that the financing of any such acquisition will be available on satisfactory terms, that we will be able to complete any such acquisition or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives as a result of any such acquisition. Nor can we assure you that our acquisition strategies will be successfully received by customers or achieve their intended benefits. Acquisitions are often undertaken to improve the operating results of either or both of the acquirer and the acquired company and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard nor can we provide any assurance that we will be able to realize all of the intended benefits from our prior acquisitions, as well as our recent acquisition of VAG. We have encountered, and may encounter, various risks in acquiring other companies (including in connection with our recent acquisition of VAG) including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, potential failure to realize anticipated benefits, diversion of management's attention, issues in customer transitions, potential inadequacies of indemnities and other contractual remedies and unanticipated problems, risks or liabilities, including environmental, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be unable to make necessary capital expenditures.We periodically make capital investments to, among other things, maintain and upgrade our facilities and enhance our products' processes. As we grow our businesses, we may have to incur significant capital expenditures. We believe that we will be able to fund these expenditures through cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities. However, our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes contain limitations that could affect our ability to fund our future capital expenditures and other capital requirements. We cannot assure you that we will have, or be able to obtain, adequate funds to make all necessary capital expenditures when required, or that the amount of future capital expenditures will not be materially in excess of our anticipated or current expenditures. If we are unable to make necessary capital expenditures, our product line may become dated, our productivity may be decreased and the quality of our products may be adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially reduce our net sales and profitability. Our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior notes contain various covenants that limit or prohibit our ability, among other things, to:•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;•pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase, retire or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments;•make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments;•sell certain assets, including stock of our subsidiaries;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;•create or incur liens;•consolidate, merge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and•enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.The indenture governing our senior notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, if we are unable to meet defined specified financial ratios. As of March 31, 2012, our senior secured bank leverage ratio was 1.68x. Failure to comply with the leverage covenant of the senior secured credit facilities can result in limiting our long-term growth prospects by hindering our ability to incur future indebtedness or grow through acquisitions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt agreements. For more information, see Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”.20Table of ContentsThe restrictions contained in the agreements that govern the terms of our debt could:•limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans;•adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, to enter into strategic acquisitions, to fund investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest; and•limit our access to the cash generated by our subsidiaries.Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the senior secured credit facilities on a first-priority lien basis. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our senior notes upon acceleration. For a more detailed description of the limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, see Part II Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”.Because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing short-term interest rates, we are vulnerable to interest rate increases.A substantial portion of our indebtedness, including the senior secured credit facilities and borrowings outstanding under our accounts receivable securitization facility, bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain short-term prevailing interest rates. As of March 31, 2012, we had $945.3 million of floating rate debt under the senior secured credit facilities. A 100 basis point increase in the March 31, 2012 interest rates would increase interest expense under the senior secured credit facilities by approximately $9.5 million on an annual basis.We rely on intellectual property that may be misappropriated or otherwise successfully challenged.We attempt to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, as well as third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. We cannot assure you that any of our applications for protection of our intellectual property rights will be approved and maintained or that our competitors will not infringe or successfully challenge our intellectual property rights. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to sustain margins on some or all of our products may be affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, in the ordinary course of our operations, from time to time we pursue and are pursued in potential litigation relating to the protection of certain intellectual property rights, including some of our more profitable products, such as FlatTop™ chain. An adverse ruling in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or distribute.We may be subject to additional product liability claims in the event that the use of our products, or the exposure to our products or their raw materials, is alleged to have resulted in injury or other adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage but we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such insurance on commercially reasonable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. In the event that this reputation is damaged as a result of a product liability claim, we may face difficulty in maintaining our pricing positions and market share with respect to some of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Part II Item 8, Note 18 - Commitments and Contingencies to our audited financial statements of this Annual Report.21Table of ContentsWe, our customers and our shippers have unionized employees who may stage work stoppages which could seriously impact the profitability of our business.As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately 7,400 employees, of whom approximately 4,300 were employed in the United States. Approximately 535 of our U.S. employees are represented by labor unions. Additionally, approximately 2,100 of our employees reside in Europe, where trade union membership is common. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are currently strong, if our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could interfere with our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and could have other negative effects, such as decreased productivity and increased labor costs. Such negative effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be affected in a material adverse manner. Further, many of our direct and indirect customers and their suppliers, and organizations responsible for shipping our products, have unionized workforces and their businesses may be impacted by strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could incur substantial business interruptions as the result of updating our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) systems.Utilizing a phased approach, we are updating our ERP systems across both our Process & Motion Control and Water Management platforms. If these updates are unsuccessful, we could incur substantial business interruptions, including the inability to perform routine business transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.Our required cash contributions to our pension plans have increased and may increase further and we could experience a material change in the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and the amount recorded in our consolidated balance sheets related to those plans. Additionally, our pension costs could increase in future years.The funded status of the defined benefit pension plans depends on such factors as asset returns, market interest rates, legislative changes and funding regulations. If the returns on the assets of any of our plans were to decline in future periods, if market interest rates were to decline, if the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) were to require additional contributions to any such plans as a result of acquisitions or if other actuarial assumptions were to be modified, our future required cash contributions and pension costs to such plans could increase. Any such increases could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The need to make contributions, which may be substantial, to such plans may reduce the cash available to meet our other obligations, including our debt obligations with respect to our senior secured credit facilities and our senior notes or to meet the needs of our business. In addition, the PBGC may terminate our U.S. defined benefit pension plans under limited circumstances, including in the event the PBGC concludes that the risk may increase unreasonably if such plans continue. In the event a U.S. defined benefit pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we could be required to make an immediate payment to the PBGC of all or a substantial portion of such plan's underfunding, as calculated by the PBGC based on its own assumptions (which might result in a larger obligation than that based on the assumptions we have used to fund such plan), and the PBGC could place a lien on material amounts of our assets. Our historical financial data is not comparable to our current financial condition and results of operations because of our use of purchase accounting in connection with various acquisitions. It may be difficult for you to compare both our historical and future results. These acquisitions were accounted for utilizing the purchase method of accounting, which resulted in a new valuation for the assets and liabilities to their fair values. This new basis of accounting began on the date of the consummation of each transaction. Also, until our purchase price allocations are finalized for an acquisition (generally less than one year after the acquisition date), our allocation of the excess purchase price over the book value of the net assets acquired is considered preliminary and subject to future adjustment. Apollo controls us and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a stockholder. Apollo Management and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 66% of our common stock. In addition, representatives of Apollo comprise 4 of our 8 directors and the consent of a majority of the voting directors designated by Apollo is required under our bylaws in connection with certain important corporate actions. As a result, Apollo has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our board of directors (or of the directors designated by Apollo) or stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and the sale of substantially all of our assets. 22Table of ContentsThe interests of Apollo could conflict with or differ from the interests of our other holders of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Apollo could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that you as a stockholder may otherwise view favorably. Apollo is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and holds, and may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in or provide advice to businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Apollo may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we expressly renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity, transaction or other matter in which Apollo or any of its members, directors, employees or other affiliates (the “Apollo Group”) participates or desires or seeks to participate in, even if the opportunity is one that we would reasonably be deemed to have pursued if given the opportunity to do so. The renouncement does not apply to any business opportunities that are presented to an Apollo Group member solely in such person's capacity as a member of our board of directors and with respect to which no other member of the Apollo Group independently receives notice or otherwise identifies such business opportunity prior to us becoming aware of it, or if the business opportunity is initially identified by the Apollo Group solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of us. So long as Apollo continues to beneficially own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, it may continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. For example, our bylaws will require the approval of a majority of the directors nominated by Apollo voting on the matter for certain important matters, including mergers and acquisitions, issuances of equity and the incurrence of debt, so long as Apollo beneficially owns at least 33 1/3% of our outstanding common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: our operating and financial performance and prospects; our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; conditions that impact demand for our products and services; future announcements concerning our business or our competitors' businesses; the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"); changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who track our common stock or industry; market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; changes in government and environmental laws and regulation (or interpretation or enforcement thereof); changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; arrival or departure of key personnel; the number of shares to be publicly traded after this offering; sales of common stock by us, Apollo or its affiliated funds or members of our management team; adverse resolution of new or pending litigation against us; and changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industries. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. We currently have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock. We currently have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. The terms governing our outstanding debt also include limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment.23Table of ContentsFuture sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of shares of our common stock. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings or otherwise, including to finance acquisitions. Apollo and members of our management are restricted from reselling their shares lock-up agreements with the underwriters in our initial public offering until late September 2012, subject to certain exceptions. Immediately after the expiration of the lock-up period, the shares will be eligible for resale under Rule 144 or Rule 701 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to volume limitations and applicable holding period requirements. In addition, shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options will also be available for sale in the open market upon exercise by the holders. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including any shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.Our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include: •having a classified board of directors; •establishing limitations on the removal of directors; •prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; •empowering only the board to fill any vacancy on our board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise, and requiring that, as long as Apollo continues to beneficially own at least 33 1/3% of our common stock, any vacancy resulting from the death, removal or resignation of an Apollo designee be filled by a majority of the remaining directors nominated by Apollo; •as long as Apollo continues to beneficially own more than 50.1% of our common stock, granting Apollo the right to increase the size of our board of directors and to fill the resulting vacancies at any time; •authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;•prohibiting stockholders from acting by written consent or calling a special meeting if less than 50.1% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by Apollo; •requiring the approval of a majority of the directors nominated by Apollo voting on the matter to approve certain business combinations and certain other significant matters so long as Apollo beneficially owns at least 33 1/3% of our common stock; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change in control of us. Our board of directors has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of our preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. Our bylaws will also require the approval of a majority of directors nominated by Apollo voting on the matter for certain important matters, including mergers and acquisitions, issuances of equity and the incurrence of debt, as long as Apollo beneficially owns at least 33 1/3% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, as long as Apollo beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, Apollo will be able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and certain corporate transactions. Together, these charter, bylaw and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant common stock beneficially owned by Apollo and its rights to nominate a specified number of directors in certain circumstances, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of us, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. 24Table of ContentsDespite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The terms of the indenture governing our senior notes and our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness, if any, incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we or our subsidiaries could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Additional leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could increase the risks described in “Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments,” “Our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows” and “Because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing short-term interest rates, we are vulnerable to interest rate increases.” The additional requirements of having a class of publicly traded equity securities may strain our resources and distract management. Even though RBS Global and Rexnord LLC previously filed reports with the SEC, we are now or will become subject to additional reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). The Dodd-Frank Act, effects comprehensive changes to public company governance and disclosures in the United States and will subject us to additional federal regulation. We cannot predict with any certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how the Dodd-Frank Act and such regulations will impact the cost of compliance for a company with publicly traded common stock. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act and other new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We also expect that being a company with publicly traded common stock and these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control for financial reporting. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be required for fiscal 2013 to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our independent public accountants auditing our financial statements must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. This may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, investors may lose confidence in our financial reports and our stock price may decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.25Table of Contents