risk factors identified in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business. General United Development Funding IV was organized on May 28, 2008 (“Inception”) as a Maryland real estate investment trust. The Trust is the sole general partner of and owns a 99.999% partnership interest in United Development Funding IV Operating Partnership, L.P. (“UDF IV OP”), a Delaware limited partnership. UMTH Land Development, L.P. (“UMTH LD”), a Delaware limited partnership and the affiliated asset manager of the Trust, is the sole limited partner and owner of 0.001% (minority interest) of the partnership interests in UDF IV OP. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, UDF IV OP had no assets, liabilities or equity. The Trust owns a 100% limited partnership interest in UDF IV Home Finance, LP (“UDF IV HF”), UDF IV Finance I, LP (“UDF IV FI”), UDF IV Finance II, LP (“UDF IV FII”), UDF IV Acquisitions, LP (“UDF IV AC”), UDF IV Finance III, LP (“UDF IV FIII”) and UDF IV Finance IV, L.P. (“UDF IV Fin IV”), all Delaware limited partnerships. The Trust is the sole member of (i) UDF IV HF Manager, LLC (“UDF IV HFM”), a Delaware limited liability company, the general partner of UDF IV HF; (ii) UDF IV Finance I Manager, LLC (“UDF IV FIM”), a Delaware limited liability company, the general partner of UDF IV FI; (iii) UDF IV Finance II Manager, LLC (“UDF IV FIIM”), a Delaware limited liability company, the general partner of UDF IV FII; (iv) UDF IV Acquisitions Manager, LLC (“UDF IV ACM”), a Delaware limited liability company, the general partner of UDF IV AC; (v) UDF IV Finance III Manager, LLC (“UDF IV FIIIM”), a Delaware limited liability company, the general partner of UDF IV FIII; and (vi) UDF IV Finance IV Manager, LLC (“UDF IV FIVM”), a Delaware limited liability company, the general partner of UDF IV Fin IV. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, UDF IV HFM, UDF IV FIM, UDF IV FIIM, UDF IV ACM, UDF IV FIIIM and UDF IV FIVM had no assets, liabilities, or equity. 3 The Trust uses substantially all of the net proceeds from the public offering of common shares of beneficial interest in the Trust to originate, purchase, participate in and hold for investment secured loans made directly by the Trust or indirectly through its affiliates to persons and entities for the acquisition and development of parcels of real property as single-family residential lots, and the construction of model and new single-family homes, including development of mixed-use master planned residential communities. The Trust also makes direct investments in land for development into single-family lots, new and model homes and portfolios of finished lots and homes; provides credit enhancements to real estate developers, home builders, land bankers and other real estate investors; and purchases participations in, or finances for other real estate investors the purchase of, securitized real estate loan pools and discounted cash flows secured by state, county, municipal or other similar assessments levied on real property. The Trust also may enter into joint ventures with unaffiliated real estate developers, home builders, land bankers and other real estate investors, or with other United Development Funding-sponsored programs, to originate or acquire, as the case may be, the same kind of secured loans or real estate investments the Trust may originate or acquire directly. As of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our total assets were approximately $344.9 million, $166.5 million and $79.6 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our total revenues were approximately $27.6 million, $13.3 million and $4.5 million, respectively, and our net income was approximately $18.2 million, $7.9 million and $2.2 million, respectively. We made an election under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), beginning with the taxable year ended December 31, 2010, as it was our first year with material operations. As a REIT, we generally are not subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our shareholders. If we later fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and may not be permitted to qualify for treatment as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for four years following the year in which our qualification is denied unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions. Such an event could materially and adversely affect our net income. However, we intend to continue to operate so as to remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. UMTH General Services, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (“UMTH GS” or the “Advisor”), is our advisor and is responsible for managing our affairs on a day-to-day basis. UMTH GS has engaged UMTH LD as our asset manager. The asset manager oversees the investing and financing activities of the affiliated programs managed and advised by the Advisor and UMTH LD as well as provides our board of trustees recommendations regarding investments and finance transactions, management, policies and guidelines and reviews investment transaction structure and terms, investment underwriting, investment collateral, investment performance, investment risk management, and our capital structure at both the entity and asset level. Please see “Item 1, Business – Investment Objectives and Policies – Conflicts of Interest” for a diagram illustrating the relationships between our Advisor and its affiliates. Approximately 19% of our portfolio consists of current performing investments with our Advisor and its affiliates. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we paid approximately $15.2 million, $7.2 million and $3.8 million, respectively, to our Advisor and other affiliated entities for fees, expenses and compensation. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we incurred related party expenses (including advisory fee – related party and general and administrative – related parties) of approximately $5.4 million, $2.7 million and $975,000, respectively, with our Advisor and other affiliated entities for fees, expenses and compensation. On November 12, 2009, our Registration Statement on Form S-11, covering an initial public offering (the “Offering”) of up to 25,000,000 common shares of beneficial interest to be offered in the primary offering at a price of $20 per share (the “Primary Offering”), was declared effective under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Offering also covers up to 10,000,000 common shares of beneficial interest to be issued pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan (the “DRIP”) for $20 per share. We reserve the right to reallocate the common shares of beneficial interest registered in the Offering between the Primary Offering and the DRIP. The shares are being offered to investors on a reasonable best efforts basis, which means the dealer manager will use its reasonable best efforts to sell the shares offered, but is not required to sell any specific number or dollar amount of shares and does not have a firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of the offered shares. As of December 31, 2012, we had issued 17,624,839 common shares of beneficial interest in exchange for gross proceeds, including DRIP, of approximately $352.5 million. 4 On October 19, 2012, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-11 (Registration No. 333-184508) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) with respect to a proposed follow-on public offering (the “Follow-On Offering”) of up to 20,000,000 common shares of beneficial interest to be offered at a price of $20.00 per share and up to 10,000,000 common shares of beneficial interest to be issued pursuant to our DRIP for $20.00 per share. We have not issued any shares under this registration statement as it has not yet been declared effective by the SEC. In addition, on October 19, 2012, we extended the Offering until the earlier of the effective date of the registration statement for the proposed Follow-on Offering or May 13, 2013. Our board of trustees may terminate the Offering at any time. Our board of trustees also may elect to extend the offering period for the shares sold pursuant to DRIP, in which case participants in the DRIP will be notified. Loan Portfolio As of December 31, 2012, we had originated or purchased 84 loans (16 of which were repaid in full by the respective borrowers) with maximum loan amounts of approximately $487.3 million. As of December 31, 2012, there are approximately $74.4 million of commitments to be funded, including approximately $16.3 million to related parties, under the terms of mortgage notes receivable and loan participation interests. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we originated 29, 20 and 19 loans, respectively, purchased 3, 1 and 1 loans, respectively, and entered into 2, 2 and 5 participation interests, respectively. Approximately 98% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of mortgage notes originated by us as of December 31, 2012 are secured by properties located throughout Texas and approximately 2% are secured by properties located in Colorado. Approximately 65% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of mortgage notes originated by us as of December 31, 2012 are secured by properties located in the Dallas, Texas area; approximately 19% are secured by properties located in the Austin, Texas area; approximately 8% are secured by properties located in the Houston, Texas area; approximately 6% are secured by properties located in the San Antonio, Texas area; and approximately 2% are secured by properties located in the Denver, Colorado area. 46 of the 68 loans outstanding as of December 31, 2012, representing approximately 63% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding loans, are secured by a first lien on the respective property; 20 of the 68 loans outstanding as of December 31, 2012, representing approximately 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding loans, are secured by a second lien on the respective property; 7 of the 68 loans outstanding as of December 31, 2012, representing approximately 18% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding loans, are secured by a pledge of some or all of the equity interests in the developer entity or other parent entity that owns the borrower entity; 17 of the 68 loans outstanding as of December 31, 2012, representing approximately 38% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding loans, are secured by reimbursements of development costs due to the developer under contracts with districts and cities; and 57 of the 68 loans outstanding as of December 31, 2012, representing approximately 87% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding loans, are secured by a guarantee of the principals or parent companies of the borrower in addition to the other collateral for the loan. 24 of the 68 loans outstanding as of December 31, 2012, representing approximately 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding loans, are made with respect to projects that are presently selling finished home lots to national public or regional private homebuilders, or are made with respect to a project in which one of these homebuilders holds an option to purchase the finished home lots and has made a significant forfeitable earnest money deposit. 7 of the 68 loans outstanding as of December 31, 2012, representing approximately 5% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding loans, are secured by multiple single-family residential communities. As of December 31, 2012, we did not have any loans to borrowers that, individually, accounted for over 10% of the outstanding balance of our portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, our largest individual borrower and its affiliates comprised approximately 65% of the outstanding balance of our portfolio. The interest rates payable range from 11.5% to 15% with respect to the outstanding participation agreements, and 11% to 15% with respect to the outstanding notes receivable, including related party, as of December 31, 2012. The participation agreements have terms to maturity ranging from 1 to 18 months, while the notes receivable have terms ranging from 7 to 47 months. 5 Investment Objectives and Policies Principal Investment Objectives Our principal investment objectives are: ·to make, originate or acquire a participation interest in secured loans (first lien priority, junior lien priority and mezzanine loans secured by real estate and/or a pledge of the equity interest in the entity owning the real estate and/or pledges of other collateral including personal guarantees) for the acquisition of land and development of single-family lots, and the construction of model and new single-family homes, including development of mixed-use master planned residential communities, typically with the loan allocation for any single asset in the range of $2.5 million to $15 million; ·to make direct investments in land for development into single-family lots, new and model homes and finished lots and homes and joint ventures with real estate developers, homebuilders, land bankers and other real estate investors; ·to provide secured senior and subordinate lines of credit to real estate developers, homebuilders, land bankers and other real estate investors, including affiliated programs, for the purchase of finished lots and for the construction of single-family homes; ·to provide credit enhancements to real estate developers, homebuilders, land bankers and other real estate investors who acquire real property, subdivide real property into single-family residential lots, acquire finished lots and/or build homes on such lots; ·to purchase participations in, or finance for other real estate investors the purchase of, securitized real estate loan pools; ·to purchase participations in, or finance for other real estate investors the purchase of, discounted cash flows secured by state, county, municipal or other similar assessments levied on real property; ·to produce net interest income from the interest paid to us on secured loans, securitized loan pools and discounted cash flows that we originate, purchase or finance or in which we acquire a participation interest; ·to produce investment income from equity investments that we make or in which we acquire a participation interest; ·to produce a profitable fee from credit enhancements and other transaction fees; ·to participate, through a direct or indirect interest in borrowers, in the profits earned by such borrowers through the underlying properties; ·to maximize distributable cash to investors; and ·to preserve, protect and return capital contributions. Investment Policy We derive a significant portion of our income by originating, purchasing, participating in and holding for investment secured loans made directly by us or indirectly through our affiliates to persons and entities for the acquisition and development of parcels of real property as single-family residential lots, and the construction of model and new single-family homes, including development of mixed-use master planned residential communities, typically with the loan allocation for any single asset in the range of $2.5 million to $15 million. In most cases, we obtain a first or subordinate lien on the underlying real property to secure our loans (mortgage loans), and we also may require a pledge of all of the equity ownership interests in the borrower entity itself as additional security for our loans. In instances where we do not have a lien on the underlying real property, we obtain a pledge of all of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity itself to secure such loans and/or a pledge of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity (so-called “mezzanine loans”) or other parent entity that owns the borrower entity. We also may require a pledge of additional assets of the borrower, liens against additional parcels of undeveloped and developed real property and/or the personal guarantees of principals or guarantees of operating entities in connection with our secured loans. We apply the same underwriting criteria and analysis of the underlying real property to each of our secured loans, regardless of how we decide to structure the secured loan. Our intention is to structure any such mezzanine loans so that they are treated as a real estate asset, giving rise to interest on an obligation secured by an interest in real property for REIT qualification purposes. 6 Our declaration of trust limits our ability to invest more than 10% of our total assets in unimproved real property, or secured loans on unimproved property, which is defined as property not acquired for the purpose of producing rental or other operating income, which has no development or construction in progress at the time of acquisition and on which no development or construction is planned in good faith to commence within one year of the acquisition. In addition to our investments in secured loans, we may make direct investments in land for development into single-family lots, new and model homes and finished lots and homes; however, we will not independently develop land or construct homes. In cases where we invest in land for the purpose of development, we engage an unaffiliated third-party developer, and we may bear the cost of development and/or fund construction costs. When we acquire properties, we most often do so through a special purpose entity formed for such purpose or a joint venture formed with a single-family residential developer, homebuilder, real estate developer or other real estate investor, with us providing equity and/or debt financing for the newly-formed entity. In limited circumstances, and in accordance with the federal tax rules for REITs and the exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), we may make equity investments through special purpose entities in land for development into single-family lots, new and model homes and finished lots. We also may enter into joint ventures with unaffiliated real estate developers, homebuilders, land bankers and other real estate investors, or with other United Development Funding-sponsored programs, to originate or acquire, as the case may be, the same kind of secured loans or real estate investments we may originate or acquire directly. We also seek an increased return by entering into participation agreements with real estate developers, homebuilders or real estate investors or joint venture entities, or by providing credit enhancements for the benefit of other entities that are associated with residential real estate financing transactions. The participation agreements and credit enhancements may come in a variety of forms; participation agreements may take the form of profit agreements, ownership interests and participating loans, while credit enhancements may take the form of guarantees, pledges of assets, letters of credit and inter-creditor agreements. We also provide secured senior and subordinate lines of credit to real estate developers, homebuilders, land bankers and other real estate investors, including other United Development Funding-sponsored programs, for the purchase of finished lots and for the construction of single-family homes. In the typical transaction in which we provide a credit enhancement to a borrower with respect to a loan from a third party, we expect to charge such borrower a credit enhancement fee of 1% to 7% of the projected maximum amount of our outstanding credit enhancement obligation for each 12-month period such obligation is outstanding, in addition to any costs that we may incur in providing the credit enhancement to the borrower. We cannot assure investors that we will obtain a 1% to 7% credit enhancement fee. The actual amount of such credit enhancement fee will be based on the risk perceived by our Advisor to be associated with the transaction, the value of the collateral associated with the transaction, our security priority as to the collateral associated with the transaction, the form and term of the credit enhancement, and our overall costs associated with providing the credit enhancement; higher risks and increased costs associated with providing the credit enhancement will necessitate the charging of a higher credit enhancement fee. Federal tax laws applicable to REITs also may limit our ability to charge credit enhancement fees unless we make our credit enhancements through a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”). Furthermore, we may purchase participations in, or finance for other real estate investors, the purchase of securitized real estate loan pools, including pools originated by our affiliates. Typically, real estate lenders wishing to create liquidity will pool loans and sell participations in the pools priced in accordance with the seniority in payment of each level or “tranche” of participation. We will seek yields and priority in accordance with our risk profile and return expectations. If we invest in securitized real estate loan pools originated by our affiliates, such investments must be approved by a majority of our trustees (including a majority of our independent trustees) not otherwise interested in the transaction as being fair and reasonable to us and on terms and conditions not less favorable to us than those available from unaffiliated third parties. In addition, the price must be based on the fair market value of the assets, as determined by an independent expert selected by a majority of our independent trustees. 7 We also may purchase participations in discounted cash flows secured by state, county, municipal or similar assessments levied on real property. In certain geographic areas, developers use a form of state, county, municipal or similar assessment-based financing to pay for development infrastructure. The development entity is empowered to levy and collect an assessment on real property to repay the cost of the designated improvements. Developers wishing to create liquidity will discount and sell the future revenue stream associated with the levy. We will seek yields and priority in accordance with our risk profile and return expectations. We concentrate our investments on single-family lot developers who sell their lots to national, regional and local homebuilders for the acquisition of property and the development of residential lots, as well as homebuilders for the construction of single-family homes. We target as a primary development market lots that have been pre-sold to national or regional affordable housing builders, as well as targeting homebuilders themselves for the construction of single-family homes. We generally seek to finance projects where the completed subdivision will consist of homes priced at or below the “conforming loan” limits for the specific geographic region. Conforming loans are loans that are eligible for purchase in the secondary market by government sponsored agencies or insured by an agency of the United States (“U.S.”) government. Generally, conforming loan limits are approximately 150% of the median home price of the respective housing market, adjusted for the specific market. The conforming loan limits are subject to change by law or regulation. We expect most of these homes will be targeted for the first time home buyer or, for the higher priced homes, persons moving from their first, or “starter,” homes to slightly more upscale homes, the so-called “move-up” home buyers. The housing development projects may also include large-scale planned communities, commonly referred to as “master planned communities,” that provide a variety of housing choices, including choices suitable for first time home buyers and move-up home buyers, as well as homes with purchase prices exceeding the conforming loan limits. We anticipate that the developments that secure our loans and investments will consist of both single-phase and, where larger parcels of land are involved, multi-phase projects and will be subject to third-party land acquisition and development loans representing approximately 60% to 75% of total project costs. These loans will have priority over the loans that we originate or buy, which we expect will represent approximately 15% to 30% of total project costs; however, we will not invest in any property in which the total amount of all secured loans outstanding on such property, including our loans with respect to the property, exceeds 85% of the appraised improved value of the property, unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria. In each instance, we will require the borrower to cover at least 10% of the total project costs with its own equity investment, which may be in the form of cash, additional collateral or value-add improvements. We will oftentimes subordinate our loans to the terms of indebtedness from other lenders relating to the subject real property to allow our borrowers to avail themselves of additional land and lot acquisition and development financing at a lower total cost to the borrower than the cost of our loan, although we will not subordinate our loans to any debt or equity interest of our Advisor, our sponsor or any of our trustees, or any of our affiliates. The use of third-party leverage, typically senior bank debt, at favorable rates allows borrowers to reduce their overall cost of funds for lot and land acquisition, community development or home construction by combining our funds with lower-cost debt. Projects that fail to meet timing projections will increase the borrowers’ overall cost of funds because the borrower will be carrying debt and incurring interest for a longer period than anticipated. Conversely, borrowers whose lots, land and homes are sold or otherwise disposed of ahead of schedule may benefit from a lower overall cost of funds. In addition to the risk that a borrower’s activities to build homes or develop the subject parcels will not be successful or will exceed the borrower’s budget, we believe that we will be subject to market-timing risk, or the risk that market conditions will adversely impact the borrower’s ability to sell the home or developed lots at a profit. Economic issues affecting the new home sales market, such as interest rates, employment rates, population growth, migration and immigration, as well as home ownership rates and household formation trends, will affect the demand for homes and lots, and therefore also impact the likelihood that a developer or homebuilder will be successful. Some of the risks inherent with development and construction financing include: (1) the availability of home mortgage loans and the liquidity of the secondary home mortgage market; (2) the availability of commercial land acquisition and development loans and the corresponding interest and advance rates; (3) the stability of global capital and financial institution markets; (4) the need to contribute additional capital in the event the market softens and the developer or homebuilder requires additional funding; (5) the reduction of the developer’s or homebuilder’s incentive if the developer’s or homebuilder’s profits decrease, which could result in both capital advanced and marketing time increases; and (6) the possibility, in those situations, that our returns will be less than our projected returns. 8 Our real estate loan and investment model differs from traditional models primarily due to our “actively managed portfolio” approach. UMTH LD, as our asset manager, will identify and underwrite real estate professionals in each region or, in some cases, each sub-market in which we invest, and it will utilize these proprietary strategic partner relationships to actively manage each loan or investment. In some cases, this may involve developing relationships with strategic partners in correcting markets, who may be able to provide us with knowledge, a presence and access to investment opportunities. Given the current economic environment and capital constraints, this also may involve banks, insurance companies, institutional investors and other traditional lending institutions that approach us for assistance with troubled assets. Large institutional investors generally rely on investments meeting initial expectations and, when market conditions negatively impact the performance of their investments, find themselves in need of asset managers or, in some cases, must liquidate investments below their initial return expectations. The inability of some homebuilders and developers to obtain financing through traditional sources may cause homebuilders and developers to seek additional financing from entities with cash, which may include us. Therefore, we will look to purchase investments at a discount when such opportunities are presented. We believe that our strategic partner relationships will help us to identify such potentially beneficial investments. Our loans and investments are underwritten, in part, on the basis of an assessment by our asset manager of its ability to execute on possible alternative development and exit strategies in light of changing market conditions. We believe there is significant value added through the use of an actively managed portfolio investment model. We manage our investment portfolio in the context of both the development lifecycle and changing market conditions in order to ensure that our assets continue to meet our investment objectives and underwriting criteria. A significant portion of our income is in the form of interest payments to us in respect of secured loans. Through the fifth year following the termination of our Primary Offering, we intend to reinvest the principal repayments we receive on loans to create or invest in new loans. Following the fifth anniversary of the termination of our Primary Offering, we will not reinvest such proceeds in order to provide our shareholders with increased distributions and provide increased cash flow from which we may repurchase shares from shareholders wishing to sell their shares. Security As of December 31, 2012, 97% of our loans were secured by multiple security interests or a security interest and a repayment guaranty. Additional security interests for our loans where we are not the first lien holder include reimbursements of development costs due to the developer being under contract with districts or municipalities, pledges of equity interests (generally, partnership interests or limited liability company interests, as applicable) that are documented by pledge agreements, assignments of equity interests, assignments of distributions from equity interests, assignments of lot sale contracts, cross collateralization agreements and subordinate deeds of trust. We also utilize guarantees to secure our loans. We expect that our real estate loans will be secured by one or more of the following: ·the parcels of land to be developed (secures 33 of 68 outstanding loans as of December 31, 2012, or 59% of the outstanding principal balance of real estate loans as of December 31, 2012); ·finished lots (secures 25 of 68 outstanding loans as of December 31, 2012, or 26% of the outstanding principal balance of real estate loans as of December 31, 2012); ·model homes and new single-family homes (secures 7 of 68 outstanding loans as of December 31, 2012, or 10% of the outstanding principal balance of real estate loans as of December 31, 2012); ·a pledge of some or all of the equity interests in the borrower entity or other parent entity that owns the borrower entity (secures 7 of 68 outstanding loans as of December 31, 2012, or 18% of the outstanding principal balance of real estate loans as of December 31, 2012); 9 ·additional assets of the borrower, including reimbursements of development costs due to the developer under contracts with districts and cities (secures 17 of 68 outstanding loans as of December 31, 2012, or 38% of the outstanding principal balance of real estate loans as of December 31, 2012); and ·in certain cases, guarantees of the principals or parent companies of the operating entity (secures 57 of 68 outstanding loans as of December 31, 2012, or 87% of the outstanding principal balance of real estate loans as of December 31, 2012). If there is no third-party financing for a development project, our lien on the subject parcels will be a first priority lien. If there is third-party financing, we expect our lien on the subject parcels will be subordinate to such financing. We will enter each loan prepared to assume or retire any senior debt, if necessary to protect our capital. We will seek to enter into agreements with third-party lenders that will require the third-party lenders to notify us of a default by the borrower under the senior debt and allow us to assume or retire the senior debt upon any default under the senior debt. Mortgage notes that are secured only by a pledge of ownership interests may not be as valuable as notes secured by a first lien if a loan defaults, as there may be liens on the property and the borrower’s only source of cash flow and only asset may be the property itself. Most of our real estate loans, including loans made to entities affiliated with our Advisor, have the benefit of guarantees of the borrower and/or its parent company and pledges of additional assets of the borrower. The use of pledges of ownership interests allows us to more quickly obtain ownership of a property when the borrower has defaulted on a loan, thus allowing us to more quickly determine future actions regarding the property. Where the borrower owns more than one property, the use of pledges may provide us with additional sources of repayment. In addition, loans made to the same borrower or related borrowers may be cross-collateralized, unless cross-collateralization is prohibited by the borrower’s senior lender or the investors in the related borrowers are materially different. We obtain an appraisal in conjunction with the initial underwriting and origination of each loan in our portfolio. In some cases, we may use an appraisal that has been prepared for another third-party lender, such as a commercial bank. We are not required to reappraise any individual asset; however, we generally will obtain an updated appraisal within 36 months from the date we originate our loan. We actively manage our portfolio, reviewing development timelines and budgets, market absorption rates and trends, lot and land prices, homebuilder performance and third-party market studies to evaluate the value of our collateral on a real time and continuous basis. Underwriting Criteria We have developed general and asset specific underwriting criteria for the loans and investments that we originate and purchase. In most cases, we obtain a first or subordinate lien on the underlying real property to secure our loans (mortgage loans), and we also may require a pledge of all of the equity ownership interests in the borrower entity itself as additional security for our loans. In instances where we do not have a lien on the underlying real property, we will obtain a pledge of some or all of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity itself to secure such loans and/or a pledge of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity or other parent entity that owns the borrower entity (so-called “mezzanine loans”). We also may require a pledge of additional assets of the borrower, liens against additional parcels of undeveloped and developed real property and/or the personal guarantees of principals or guarantees of operating entities in connection with our secured loans. We typically originate loans bearing interest at rates ranging from 10% to 18% per annum. Loans secured by a first or senior lien generally bear interest from 10% to 18%, further dependent on the amount of all secured loans on the property, creditworthiness of the borrower, the term of the loan and the presence of additional guarantees and/or pledges of additional collateral. Land acquisition loans, finished lot loans and construction loans are generally first-lien secured. Loans secured by subordinate or junior liens or pledges of equity ownership interests generally bear interest from 13% to 18%, further dependent on the amount of all secured loans on the property, creditworthiness of the borrower, the term of the loan and the presence of additional guarantees and/or pledges of additional collateral. Loans for development of real property as single-family residential lots are generally subordinate to conventional third-party financing. We currently do not have a policy that establishes a minimum or maximum term for the loans we may make, nor do we intend to establish one. Loans typically are structured as interest-only notes with balloon payments or reductions to principal tied to net cash from the sale of developed lots and finished homes with the release formula created by the senior lender, i.e., the conditions under which principal is repaid to the senior lender, if any. We will not make or invest in loans on any one property if the aggregate amount of all secured loans on such property, including loans from us, exceeds an amount equal to 85% of the appraised value of such property, unless our board of trustees, including a majority of our independent trustees, determines that substantial justification exists for exceeding such limit because of the presence of other underwriting criteria. We may buy or originate loans in any of the 48 contiguous United States. 10 Credit Underwriting We are primarily an asset-based lender and as such our loans are underwritten based on collateral value. The creditworthiness of our borrower and the presence of personal guarantees both influence the amount of money we will agree to advance to the borrower and the interest rate we will charge the borrower. Asset Specific Underwriting Criteria The following is a general description of our underwriting criteria with respect to the various types of real estate investments we make, originate or acquire. Origination fees and interest rates charged to borrowers are in relation to collateral, credit repayment guarantees and competition in the credit markets. The term of the loan represents the typical initial term of a loan, without regard to subsequent extensions. Combined loan-to-value ratio is the aggregate of all loan balances, senior and subordinated, divided by the appraised value of the property. Substantial justification to exceed an 85% loan-to-value ratio may exist because of the presence of other underwriting criteria such as the net worth of the borrower, the credit rating of the borrower based on historical financial performance, or collateral adequate to justify a waiver of the 85% limitation. In addition, the 85% limitation may be exceeded where mortgage loans are or will be insured or guaranteed by a government or government agency; where the loan is secured by the pledge or assignment of other real estate or another real estate mortgage; where rents are assigned under a lease where a tenant or tenants have demonstrated through historical net worth and cash flow the ability to satisfy the terms of the lease, or where similar criteria is presented satisfactory to the official or agency administering the securities laws of a jurisdiction. Leverage refers to the maximum aggregate asset specific leverage provided by unaffiliated third parties with respect to a specific asset and is expressed as a percentage of either cost or appraised value. A tri-party agreement refers to agreements between the senior and subordinate lenders that set forth the rights and obligations amongst and between the parties, and pursuant to which the subordinate lender may assume or purchase the senior indebtedness in the event of a default by the borrower. Loans ·Senior and Subordinated Secured Land Acquisition Loans ·Asset: land designated for development into residential lots (in certain instances, this may include ancillary commercial land) ·Liens: first liens, junior liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 to 24 months ·Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria ·Leverage: third party indebtedness up to 65% of the cost of the land ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required on all senior and junior liens, owner’s title policy required on pledges of equity interests ·Tri-Party Agreement: required if loan is subordinated to third-party lender ·Senior and Subordinated Secured Development Loans ·Asset: land under development into residential lots and all improvements thereon ·Liens: first liens, junior liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 18 to 48 months 11 ·Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 75% of the cost of land and improvements ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required on all senior and junior liens, owner’s title policy required on pledges of equity interests ·Tri-Party Agreement: required if loan is subordinated to third-party lender ·Senior and Subordinated Secured Finished Lot Loans ·Asset: finished residential lots ·Liens: first liens, junior liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 to 36 months ·Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 75% of the appraised value of the finished lots ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required on all senior and junior liens, owner’s title policy required on pledges of equity interests ·Tri-Party Agreement: required if loan is subordinated to third-party lender ·Senior and Subordinated Secured Model Home Loans ·Asset: finished model homes ·Liens: first liens, junior liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 to 36 months ·Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 80% of the appraised value of the model homes ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required on all senior and junior liens, owner’s title policy required on pledges of equity interests ·Other: assignment of model home lease ·Tri-Party Agreement: required if loan is subordinated to third-party lender ·Senior and Subordinated Secured Construction Loans ·Asset: residential lots with homes under construction ·Liens: first liens, junior liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 months ·Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 90% of the cost of the lots and homes ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required on all senior and junior liens, owner’s title policy required on pledges of equity interests ·Tri-Party Agreement: required if loan is subordinated to third-party lender ·Senior Lines of Credit for Finished Lots ·Asset: finished residential lots ·Liens: first liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 to 36 months 12 ·Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 90% of the appraised value of the finished lot ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required ·Other: earnest money deposit, option fees and/or letters of credit supporting lot purchase contracts ·Senior Lines of Credit for Home Construction ·Asset: residential lots with homes under construction ·Liens: first liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 months ·Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 90% of the cost of the lots and homes ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required ·Subordinate Lines of Credit for Finished Lots ·Asset: finished residential lots ·Liens: junior liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 to 36 months ·Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 75% of the appraised value of the finished lots ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required on all senior and junior liens, owner’s title policy required on pledges of equity interests ·Other: earnest money deposit, option fees or letters of credit supporting lot purchase contracts ·Tri-Party Agreement: required if loan is subordinated to third-party lender ·Subordinate Lines of Credit for Home Construction ·Asset: residential lots with homes under construction ·Liens: junior liens and/or pledges of all of the equity interests of the entity holding title to the subject property, including without limitation, personal and entity guarantees, and additional pledges of cash, revenue streams, municipal reimbursements or property ·Term: 12 months ·Combined Loan-to-Value Ratio: not to exceed 85% of appraised value unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 90% of the cost of the lots and homes ·Title Insurance: mortgagee’s title policy required on all senior and junior liens, owner’s title policy required on pledges of equity interests ·Tri-Party Agreement: required if loan is subordinated to third-party lender Real Estate Investments ·Land Investments ·Asset: land designated for development and land under development into residential lots ·Ownership: fee simple to us, our wholly-owned subsidiary or co-venturer entity designated for ownership of property ·Term: 12 to 60 months ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 75% of the cost of the land ·Title Insurance: owner’s title policy required ·Model Home and Finished Home Investments 13 ·Asset: finished model homes ·Ownership: fee simple to us, our wholly-owned subsidiary or co-venturer entity designated for ownership of property ·Term: 24 to 36 months ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 90% of the appraised value of the lots and homes ·Title Insurance: owner’s title policy required ·Finished Lot Investments ·Asset: finished residential lots ·Ownership: fee simple to us, our wholly-owned subsidiary or co-venturer entity designated for ownership of property ·Term: 24 to 36 months ·Leverage: third-party senior indebtedness up to 80% of the appraised value of the finished lots ·Title Insurance: owner’s title policy required ·Purchase of Discounted Cash Flow ·Asset: state, county, municipal or other similar assessments levied on real property ·Ownership: through assignment or purchase of debt instrument to us, our wholly-owned subsidiary or co-venturer entity designated for ownership ·Term: indeterminate ·Leverage: the appraised value of the finished lots up to 90% of the cost of the asset Credit Facility On February 5, 2010, during the credit crisis in which financial institutions severely reduced the number of loans made to entities involved in real estate, we obtained a revolving credit facility in the maximum principal amount of $8 million (the “Credit Facility”) from Raley Holdings, LLC, an unaffiliated company (“Raley Holdings”). The interest rate on the Credit Facility is equal to 8.5% per annum. Accrued interest on the outstanding principal amount of the Credit Facility is payable monthly. The Credit Facility’s original maturity date was February 5, 2011. Effective August 10, 2010, the Credit Facility was amended to increase the maximum principal amount to $20 million, pursuant to a First Amendment to Secured Line of Credit Promissory Note between us and the Lender. Effective February 8, 2011, we executed an extension agreement that extended the maturity date of the Credit Facility to February 5, 2012. Effective February 5, 2012, we executed an additional extension agreement that extended the maturity date of the Credit Facility to February 5, 2013. Effective February 5, 2013, we executed a third extension agreement that extended the maturity date of the Credit Facility to February 5, 2014 (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Subsequent Events” for further discussion). The Credit Facility is secured by a first priority collateral assignment and lien on certain of our assets. Raley Holdings may, in its discretion, decide to advance additional principal to us under the Credit Facility. Raley Holdings may require us to provide additional collateral as a condition of funding additional advances of principal under the Credit Facility. From time to time, we may request Raley Holdings to release collateral, and Raley Holdings may require a release price to be paid as a condition of granting its release of collateral. In connection with this Credit Facility, as of December 31, 2012, we have agreed to pay debt financing fees totaling approximately $196,000 to UMTH GS. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, $5.1 million and $8.8 million, respectively, in principal was outstanding under the Credit Facility and is included in notes payable on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Credit Enhancements Credit enhancements are underwritten in the same manner as our other real estate investments. The collateral, term, leverage, rates and guarantee criteria will follow the applicable land, development, finished lot or construction loan terms. 14 The principal amounts of our loans and the number of loans and investments we make will be affected by market availability and will depend upon the amount of net offering proceeds available to us from the sale of shares. Borrowing Policies There is no limitation on the amount we may borrow for the purchase or origination of a single secured loan, the purchase of any individual property or other investment. Under our declaration of trust, the maximum amount of our indebtedness shall not exceed 300% of our net assets as of the date of any borrowing; however, we may exceed that limit if approved by a majority of our independent trustees and disclosed in our next quarterly report to shareholders, along with justification for such excess. In addition to our declaration of trust limitation, our board of trustees has adopted a policy to generally limit our fund level borrowings to 50% of the aggregate fair market value of our assets unless substantial justification exists that borrowing a greater amount is in our best interests. We have incurred and may continue to incur, when appropriate, debt at the asset level. Asset level leverage is determined by the anticipated term of the investment and the cash flow expected by the investment. Asset level leverage is expected to range from 0% to 90% of the asset value. Our policy limitation, therefore, does not apply to individual real estate assets and only will apply once we have ceased raising capital under the Offering or any subsequent offering and invested a majority of the net proceeds from such offerings. We have incurred fund level indebtedness in the form of revolving credit facilities permitting us to borrow up to an agreed-upon outstanding principal amount. Such debt is and will continue to be secured by a first priority lien upon all of our existing and future acquired assets. See Notes J and K to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for further discussion of our notes payable and lines of credit, respectively. Investment Limitations Our declaration of trust places numerous limitations on us with respect to the manner in which we may invest our funds or issue securities. Until our common shares of beneficial interest are listed for trading on a national securities exchange, we will not: ·borrow in excess of 300% of our net tangible assets, unless a majority of the independent trustees approves each borrowing in excess of our declaration of trust limitation and we disclose such borrowing to our shareholders in our next quarterly report with an explanation from the independent trustees of the justification for the excess borrowing; ·invest in commodities or commodity futures contracts, except for futures contracts when used solely for the purpose of hedging in connection with our ordinary business of investing in real estate assets and secured loans; ·invest in real estate contracts of sale, otherwise known as land sale contracts, unless the contract is in recordable form and is appropriately recorded in the chain of title; ·make or invest in secured loans unless an appraisal is obtained concerning the underlying property, except for those secured loans insured or guaranteed by a government or government agency. Prior to making such investment, we will obtain an appraisal of such investment from a person who is in the business of rendering opinions regarding the value of assets of the type held by us and who is qualified to perform such work. In cases where our independent trustees determine, and in all cases in which the transaction is with any of our trustees or our Advisor or its affiliates, such appraisal will be obtained from an independent appraiser. We will maintain such appraisal in our records for at least five years, and it will be available for inspection and duplication by our shareholders. In addition, we will obtain a mortgagee’s or owner’s title insurance policy or a commitment as to the priority of the secured loan; ·make or invest in secured loans that are subordinate to any mortgage or equity interest of any of our trustees, our Advisor or its affiliates; ·make or invest in secured loans, including development and construction loans, on any one property if the aggregate amount of all secured loans on such property, including loans from us, would exceed an amount equal to 85% of the appraised value of such property unless substantial justification exists because of the presence of other underwriting criteria; 15 ·invest more than 10% of our total assets in unimproved real property (which we define as property not acquired for the purpose of producing rental or other operating income, which has no development or construction in process at the time of acquisition and on which no development or construction is planned in good faith to commence within one year of the acquisition) or secured loans, bridge or mezzanine loans on unimproved real property; ·invest in equity securities, unless a majority of the board of trustees, including a majority of the independent trustees, not otherwise interested in the transaction approves such investment as being fair, competitive and commercially reasonable; ·issue equity securities on a deferred-payment basis or other similar arrangement; ·issue debt securities in the absence of adequate cash flow to cover debt service; ·issue options or warrants to purchase shares to our Advisor, trustees, sponsor or any affiliate thereof (1) on terms more favorable than we offer such options or warrants to the general public or (2) in excess of an amount equal to 10% of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest on the date of grant; ·issue securities that are redeemable solely at the option of the holder, which restriction has no effect on our share redemption program or the ability of our operating partnership to issue redeemable partnership interests; or ·make any investment that we believe would be inconsistent with our objectives of qualifying and remaining qualified as a REIT unless the board of trustees determines, in its sole discretion, that REIT qualification is not in our best interest. Our declaration of trust requires that our independent trustees review our investment policies at least annually to determine that the policies we follow are in the best interest of our shareholders. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Disposition Policies If we acquire real properties, as each of those properties reach what we believe to be its optimum value during the expected life of the fund, we will consider disposing of the investment and may do so for the purpose of either distributing the net sale proceeds to our shareholders or investing the proceeds in other assets that we believe may produce a higher overall future return to our shareholders. The determination of when a particular investment should be sold or otherwise disposed of will be made after consideration of relevant factors, including prevailing and projected economic conditions, whether the value of the property or other investment is anticipated to decline substantially, whether we could apply the proceeds from the sale of the asset to make other investments consistent with our investment objectives, whether disposition of the asset would allow us to increase cash flow, and whether the sale of the asset would constitute a prohibited transaction under the Internal Revenue Code or otherwise impact our status as a REIT. Our ability to dispose of property during the first few years following its acquisition will be restricted to a substantial extent as a result of our REIT status. Under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code regarding prohibited transactions by REITs, a REIT that sells property other than foreclosure property that is deemed to be inventory or property held primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business is deemed a “dealer” and subject to a 100% penalty tax on the net income from any such transaction. As a result, our board of trustees will attempt to structure any disposition of our properties to avoid this penalty tax through reliance on safe harbors available under the Internal Revenue Code for properties held at least two years or through the use of a TRS. Conflicts of Interest We do not have any employees and we depend on our Advisor and its affiliates for the day-to-day management of our operations. As a result, we are subject to various conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with our Advisor and its affiliates, including conflicts related to the arrangements pursuant to which our Advisor and its affiliates will be compensated by us. All of our agreements and arrangements with our Advisor and its affiliates, including those relating to compensation, are not the result of arm’s length negotiations. However, we believe that all of our agreements and arrangements with our Advisor and its affiliates, including those relating to compensation, are consistent with the NASAA REIT Guidelines regarding conflicts of interest. In addition, our legal counsel, Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP, and our independent registered public accounting firm, Whitley Penn LLP, are independent entities who were selected by our board of trustees and each provides services to our Advisor and other entities affiliated with our Advisor. If the interests of the various parties become adverse, they may face conflicts of interest and may be precluded from representing any one or all of such parties. 16 Our independent trustees have an obligation to function on our behalf in all situations in which a conflict of interest may arise, and all of our trustees have a fiduciary obligation to act on behalf of our shareholders. Our Advisor and its affiliates act as advisors, asset managers or general partners of other United Development Funding-sponsored programs that have investment objectives similar to ours, and we expect that they will organize other such programs in the future. These persons have legal and financial obligations with respect to these programs that are similar to their obligations to us. As general partners, they may have contingent liability for the obligations of programs structured as partnerships, which, if such obligations were enforced against them, could result in a substantial reduction of their net worth. The chart below indicates the relationships between our Advisor and its affiliates. (1)Todd F. Etter and Hollis M. Greenlaw each own one-half of the equity interests in UMT Services, Inc. (“UMT Services”). Messrs. Etter and Greenlaw and Michael K. Wilson serve as directors of UMT Services. UMT Services serves as general partner of UMTH GS, our Advisor. (2)UMT Services serves as the general partner and owns 0.1% of the limited partnership interests in UMT Holdings, L.P. (“UMT Holdings”). The remaining 99.9% of the limited partnership interests in UMT Holdings are held as follows as of December 31, 2012: Mr. Etter (30.00%), Mr. Greenlaw (30.00%), Craig A. Pettit (5.00%), Timothy J. Kopacka (4.84%), Michael K. Wilson (7.41%), Christine A. Griffin (1.95%), Cara D. Obert (4.82%), William E. Lowe (1.06%), Ben L. Wissink (10.09%) and Melissa H. Youngblood (4.83%). 17 (3)UMT Services serves as the general partner and owns 0.1% of the limited partnership interests in each of UMTH GS and UMTH LD. UMT Holdings owns the remaining 99.9% of the limited partnership interests in each of UMTH GS and UMTH LD, our asset manager. UMTH LD also serves as the asset manager for United Development Funding, L.P. (“UDF I”) and United Development Funding II, L.P. (“UDF II”), each a Delaware limited partnership. In addition, UMTH LD serves as the general partner of United Development Funding III, L.P. (“UDF III”), a publicly registered Delaware limited partnership, and as the general partner and sole limited partner of UDF Land GenPar, LP, a Delaware limited partnership (“UDF LGP”). UDF LGP serves as the general partner of United Development Funding Land Opportunity Fund, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (“UDF LOF”). UMTH LD also serves as the asset manager of UDF LOF. (4)United Development Funding, Inc. is owned 33.75% by each of Messrs. Greenlaw and Etter, 22.5% by Mr. Kopacka, and 10% by Ms. Griffin. (5)United Development Funding II, Inc. is owned 50% by each of Messrs. Etter and Greenlaw. (6)UMTH LD owns 100% of the general partnership and limited partnership interests in UDF LGP. (7)UMTH GS serves as the advisor for United Mortgage Trust (“UMT”), a Maryland real estate investment trust. (8)United Development Funding, Inc. serves as general partner for UDF I and owns a 0.02% general partnership interest, UMTH LD owns a 49.99% subordinated profits interest, and unaffiliated limited partners own the remaining 49.99% of the interests in UDF I. UDF I is a real estate finance company that engages in the business in which we engage and intend to continue to engage. (9)United Development Funding II, Inc. serves as general partner for UDF II and owns a 0.1% general partnership interest, UMTH LD owns a 49.95% subordinated profits interest, and unaffiliated limited partners own the remaining 49.95% of the interests in UDF II. UDF II is a real estate finance company that engages in the business in which we engage and intend to continue to engage. (10)UMTH LD holds a 0.01% general partner interest in UDF III. Approximately 9,000 limited partners as of December 31, 2012 own 99.99% of the limited partnership units of UDF III. UDF III is a real estate finance company that engages in the business in which we engage and intend to continue to engage. (11)UDF LGP holds a 0.01% general partnership interest in UDF LOF. UDF LGP also holds a subordinated profit participation interest in UDF LOF. The investors who purchased units in the private offering of UDF LOF own 99.9% of the limited partnership interests. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 610 limited partners held interests in UDF LOF. UDF LOF is a real estate finance company that engages in the business in which we engage and intend to continue to engage. (12)UMT Holdings owns 10,000 of our shares of beneficial interest as of December 31, 2012. (13)We own a 99.999% general partner interest in UDF IV OP. UMTH LD owns a 0.001% limited partner interest in UDF IV OP. Housing Industry The U.S. housing market has suffered declines over the past five years, particularly in geographic areas that had previously experienced rapid growth, steep increases in property values and speculation. In 2009, the homebuilding industry was focused on further reducing supply and inventory overhang of new single-family homes. In 2010, national and regional homebuilders increased the number of homes constructed from the number constructed in 2009. In 2011, the number of new homes constructed fell slightly from 2010 as homebuilders adjusted to the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, which we believe pulled demand forward at the expense of the following sales season. We believe that while demand for new homes has been affected across the country by the general decline of the housing industry, the housing markets in the geographic areas in which we have invested and intend to invest have not been impacted as greatly. Further, we believe that, as a result of the inventory reductions and corresponding lack of development over the past few years, the supply of new homes and finished lots have generally aligned with market demand in most real estate markets. Home starts increased in 2012 from the levels experienced in 2009, 2010 and 2011, and we expect that more homes will be started in 2013 than in 2012 as homebuilders meet increasing demand. We also believe that we will see continued demand for our products in 2013. 18 Competition Real estate investment and finance is a very competitive industry. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, real estate limited partnerships, other real estate investment trusts, institutional investors, homebuilders, developers and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do and may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the proliferation of the Internet as a tool for real estate acquisitions and loan origination has made it very inexpensive for new competitors to participate in the real estate investment and finance industry. Our ability to make or purchase a sufficient number of loans and investments to meet our objectives will depend on the extent to which we can compete successfully against these other entities, including entities that may have greater financial or marketing resources, greater name recognition or larger customer bases than we have. Our competitors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, which may make it more difficult for us to attract customers. Increased competition could result in lower revenues and higher expenses, which would reduce our profitability. Regulations All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Under limited circumstances, a secured lender, in addition to the owner of real estate, may be liable for clean-up costs or have the obligation to take remedial actions under environmental laws, including, but not limited to, the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability for the costs of investigation or remediation of contaminated properties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. In addition, the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell such property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowing. If we foreclose on a defaulted loan to recover our investment, we may become subject to environmental liabilities associated with that property if we participate in the management of that property or do not divest ourselves of the property at the earliest practicable time on commercially reasonable terms. Environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. It is possible that property on which we foreclose may contain hazardous substances, wastes, contaminants or pollutants that we may be required to remove or remediate in order to clean up the property. If we foreclose on a contaminated property, we may also incur liability to tenants or other users of neighboring properties. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will not incur full recourse liability for the entire cost of removal and cleanup, that the cost of such removal and cleanup will not exceed the value of the property, or that we will recover any of these costs from any other party. It may be difficult or impossible to sell a property following discovery of hazardous substances or wastes on the property. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. 19 In addition, as a non-bank lender of commercial loans, we are subject to various state and federal regulations regarding usury laws. State and federal usury laws limit the interest that lenders are entitled to receive on a mortgage loan. In determining whether a given transaction is usurious, courts may include charges in the form of “points” and “fees” as “interest,” but may exclude payments in the form of “reimbursement of foreclosure expenses” or other charges found to be distinct from “interest.” While we contract for interest at a rate that is less than or equal to the applicable maximum amount of non-usurious interest and our loan documents and Texas law provide us with an opportunity to cure usurious charges, if the amount charged for the use of the money loaned is found to exceed a statutorily established maximum rate (under Texas law, the current maximum amount of non-usurious interest is 18% per annum) and we fail to cure, the form employed and the degree of overcharge are both immaterial to the determination that the loan is usurious. Statutes differ in their provision as to the consequences of a usurious loan. One group of statutes requires the lender to forfeit the interest above the applicable limit or imposes a specified penalty. Under this statutory scheme, the borrower may have the recorded mortgage or deed of trust cancelled upon paying its debt with lawful interest, or the lender may foreclose, but only for the debt plus lawful interest. Under a second, more severe type of statute, a violation of the usury law results in the invalidation of the transaction, thereby permitting the borrower to have the recorded mortgage or deed of trust cancelled without any payment (thus prohibiting the lender from foreclosing). Employees We have no employees; however, our Advisor and affiliates of our Advisor have a staff of employees who perform a range of services for us, including originations, acquisitions, asset management, accounting, legal and investor relations. Financial Information about Industry Segments Our current business consists only of originating, acquiring, servicing and managing mortgage loans on real property, acquiring participation interests in third-party mortgage loans on real property and issuing or acquiring an interest in credit enhancements to borrowers. We internally evaluate our activities as one industry segment, and, accordingly, we do not report segment information. Available Information We electronically file an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports with the SEC. We also have filed with the SEC our registration statement in connection with the Offering. Copies of our filings with the SEC may be obtained from the web site maintained by our sponsor at http://www.udfonline.com or at the SEC’s website, at http://www.sec.gov. Access to these filings is free of charge. We are not incorporating our website or any information from the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The factors described below represent our principal risks. Other factors may exist that we do not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available or that we are not currently able to anticipate. Risks Related to an Investment in UDF IV There is no public trading market for our shares; therefore, it will be difficult for shareholders to sell their shares. If a shareholder is able to sell their shares, the shareholder may have to sell them at a substantial discount from the public offering price. In addition, we do not have a fixed liquidation date, and the shareholder may have to hold their shares indefinitely. There is no public market for our shares, and we cannot guarantee that one will ever develop. It will, therefore, be difficult for shareholders to sell their shares promptly, or at all. In addition, the price received for the sale of any of our common shares of beneficial interest is likely to be less than the proportionate value of our investments. At this time, we have no intention to list our shares, and we will seek to list our shares for trading on a national securities exchange only if our independent trustees believe listing would be in the best interest of our shareholders. As a result, we do not know if we will ever apply to list our shares for trading on a national securities exchange, or, if we do apply for listing, when such application would be made or whether it would be accepted. If our shares are listed, we cannot assure shareholders a public trading market will develop. We cannot assure shareholders that the price they would receive in a sale on a national securities exchange would be representative of the value of the assets we own or that it would equal or exceed the amount they paid for the shares. Furthermore, our declaration of trust does not provide a specific date on which we must liquidate. Therefore, shareholders should purchase the shares only as a long-term investment and they may have to hold their shares indefinitely. 20 The minimum purchase requirements and suitability standards imposed on prospective investors in the Offering also apply to subsequent purchasers of our shares. If shareholders are able to find a buyer for their shares, they may not sell their shares to such buyer unless the buyer meets the suitability standards applicable to him, which may inhibit a shareholder’s ability to sell their shares. Furthermore, we are limited in our ability to buy back shares pursuant to our redemption program, including limits on the price we may pay for shareholders’ shares. Our board of trustees may reject any request for redemption of shares or amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program at any time. Shareholders may not be able to sell their shares in the event of an emergency, and, if shareholders are able to sell their shares, they may have to sell them at a substantial discount from the public offering price. It is also likely that their shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. The prior performance of real estate investment programs sponsored by our Advisor and its affiliates may not be an indication of our future results. We were formed in May 2008, and UMTH GS, our Advisor, was formed in March 2003. Shareholders should not assume that our performance will be similar to the past performance of other real estate investment programs sponsored by our Advisor and its affiliates. Therefore, to be successful in this market, we must, among other things: ·increase awareness of the United Development Funding name within the investment products market; ·attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified personnel to manage our day-to-day operations; ·respond to competition both for investment opportunities and potential investors in us; and ·build and expand our operations structure to support our business. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in achieving these goals, and our failure to do so could cause shareholders to lose all or a portion of their investment. If we, through our Advisor, are unable to find suitable investments, then we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay distributions. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is dependent upon the performance of our Advisor in the identification of real estate loans and other investments and the determination of any financing arrangements. We have not identified all of the properties to acquire or secured loans to originate or acquire with proceeds from the Offering. Shareholders will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments. Shareholders must rely entirely on the oversight of our board of trustees and the management ability of our Advisor. We cannot be sure that our Advisor will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that our objectives will be achieved. Shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate our investments before they are made. We will seek to invest substantially all of the offering proceeds available for investments, after the payment of fees and expenses, in secured loans made directly by us or indirectly through our affiliates to persons and entities for the acquisition and development of parcels of real property as single-family residential lots, and the construction of model and new single-family homes, including development of mixed-use master planned residential communities. We may also make direct investments in land for development into single-family lots, new and model homes and portfolios of finished lots and homes. We rely entirely on our Advisor with respect to the acquisition of our investments, and shareholders will not be able to evaluate our future investments. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in obtaining additional suitable investments. If we are unable to identify additional properties or loans that satisfy our investment objectives in a timely fashion, our business strategy and operations may be adversely affected. We may suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, particularly as a result of the current economic environment and capital constraints, which could adversely affect the return on shareholders’ investments. We could suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, particularly as a result of the current economic environment, capital constraints and our reliance on our Advisor and referrals by borrowers, developers, commercial lenders, homebuilders and other referral sources. Capital constraints at the heart of the credit crisis have reduced the number of real estate lenders able or willing to finance development, construction and the purchase of homes, thus reducing the number of homebuilders and developers that are able to receive such financing. In the event that homebuilders and developers fail or reduce the number of their development and homebuilding projects, resulting in a reduction of new loan applicants, or the supply of referrals by borrowers, developers, commercial lenders and homebuilders decreases, the availability of investments for us would also decrease. Such decreases in the demand for secured loans could leave us with excess cash. In such instances, we plan to make short-term, interim investments with proceeds available from sales of shares and hold these interim investments, pending investment in suitable loans and real estate properties. Interest returns on these interim investments are usually lower than on secured loans and real estate properties, which may reduce the yield to holders of shares and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, depending on how long these interim investments are held. 21 When we invest in short-term, interim investments using proceeds from the sale of shares, those shareholders will nevertheless participate equally in our distributions of income with holders of shares whose sale proceeds have been invested in secured loans and real estate properties. This will favor, for a time, holders of shares whose purchase monies were invested in interim investments, to the detriment of holders of shares whose purchase monies are invested in normally higher-yielding secured loans and real estate properties. The payment of distributions from sources other than our cash flow from operations reduces the funds available for real estate investments, and a shareholder’s overall return may be reduced. Our organizational documents permit us to make distributions from any source. Because we have funded distributions from financings or the net proceeds from the Offering, we will have less funds available for real estate investments, and a shareholder’s overall return may be reduced. Further, to the extent distributions exceed cash flow from operations, a shareholder’s basis in our common shares of beneficial interest will be reduced and, to the extent distributions exceed a shareholder’s basis, the shareholder may recognize capital gain. We have not established any limit on the amount of proceeds from the Offering that may be used to fund distributions, except that, in accordance with our organizational documents and Maryland law, we may not make distributions that would (1) cause us to be unable to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (2) cause our total assets to be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus senior liquidation preferences, if any. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we paid distributions of approximately $19.5 million ($12.5 million in cash and $7.0 million in our common shares of beneficial interest pursuant to our DRIP), as compared to cash flows provided by operations of approximately $13.6 million and funds from operations (“FFO”) of $18.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we paid distributions of approximately $8.1 million ($5.1 million in cash and $3.0 million in our common shares of beneficial interest pursuant to our DRIP), as compared to cash flows provided by operations of approximately $6.3 million and FFO of $7.9 million. From May 28, 2008 (Date of Inception) through December 31, 2012, we paid cumulative distributions of approximately $29.4 million, as compared to cumulative FFO of approximately $28.3 million (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Funds from Operations and Modified Funds from Operations” below for a discussion of FFO). As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $2.0 million of cash distributions declared that were paid subsequent to period end. The distributions paid during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, along with the amount of distributions reinvested pursuant to our DRIP and the sources of our distributions were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Distributions paid in cash $12,476,000 $5,062,000 Distributions reinvested 6,974,000 3,019,000 Total distributions $19,450,000 $8,081,000 Source of distributions: Cash from operations $13,575,000 70% $6,342,000 78% Borrowings under credit facilities 5,875,000 30% 1,739,000 22% Total sources $19,450,000 100% $8,081,000 100% 22 Competition with third parties in financing properties may reduce our profitability and the return on a shareholder’s investment. Real estate investment and finance is a very competitive industry. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, real estate limited partnerships, other real estate investment trusts, institutional investors, homebuilders, developers and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do and may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the proliferation of the Internet as a tool for real estate acquisitions and loan origination has made it very inexpensive for new competitors to participate in the real estate investment and finance industry. Our ability to make or purchase a sufficient number of loans and investments to meet our objectives will depend on the extent to which we can compete successfully against these other entities, including entities that may have greater financial or marketing resources, greater name recognition or larger customer bases than we have. Our competitors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, which may make it more difficult for us to attract customers. Increased competition could result in lower revenues and higher expenses, which would reduce our profitability. The homebuilding industry has undergone a significant downturn, and its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain. Further deterioration in industry or economic conditions could further decrease demand and pricing for new homes and residential home lots and have additional adverse effects on our operations and financial results. Developers and homebuilders to whom we make loans and with whom we enter into subordinate debt positions will use the proceeds of our loans and investments to develop raw real estate into residential home lots and construct homes. The developers obtain the money to repay our development loans by selling the residential home lots to homebuilders or individuals who will build single-family residences on the lots, or by obtaining replacement financing from other lenders. The developer’s ability to repay our loans is based primarily on the amount of money generated by the developer’s sale of its inventory of single-family residential lots. Homebuilders obtain the money to repay our loans by selling the homes they construct or by obtaining replacement financing from other lenders, and thus, the homebuilders’ ability to repay our loans is based primarily on the amount of money generated by the sale of such homes. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in general and local economic conditions, such as: ·employment level and job growth; ·demographic trends, including population increases and decreases and household formation; ·availability of financing for homebuyers; ·interest rates; ·affordability of homes; ·consumer confidence; ·levels of new and existing homes for sale, including foreclosed homes; and ·housing demand. These may occur on a national scale or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as existing homes, including homes held for sale by investors and speculators, foreclosed homes, and rental properties, can also reduce the homebuilder’s ability to sell new homes, depress new home prices, and reduce homebuilder margins on the sales of new homes, which likely would reduce the amount and price of the residential homes and lots sold by the homebuilders and developers to which we have loaned money and/or increase the absorption period in which such homes and lots are purchased. Also, historically, the homebuilding industry uses expectations for future volume growth as the basis for determining the optimum amount of land and lots to own. In light of the much weaker market conditions encountered in 2006, which further deteriorated in 2007, 2008 and 2009, we believe that the homebuilding industry significantly slowed its purchases of land and lots over that time as part of its strategy to reduce inventory to reflect the reduced rate of production. 23 We believe that the difficult conditions within the homebuilding industry reached a bottom in early 2009 and demand is beginning to slowly return although it remains challenged in many markets. According to a joint release from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Census Bureau, the sale of new single-family homes in December 2012 was estimated to be at a seasonally-adjusted rate of 369,000, approximately 8.8% above the December 2011 estimate. The median sales price of new homes sold in December 2012 was $248,900; the average sales price was $304,000. The seasonally-adjusted estimate of new houses for sale at the end of December 2012 was 151,000, representing a supply of 4.9 months at the December 2012 sales rate. In such a business climate, homebuilders and developers to which we have loaned money may be unable to generate sufficient income from the resale of single-family homes and residential lots to repay our loans. Accordingly, continued or further deterioration of homebuilding conditions or in the broader economic conditions of the markets where we operate could cause the number of homebuyers to decrease, which would increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We believe that housing market conditions will continue to be challenging, and we cannot predict the duration or ultimate severity of these challenges. Our operations could be negatively affected to the extent that the housing industry downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. The reduction in availability of mortgage financing and the volatility and reduction in liquidity in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, and the duration and ultimate severity of the effects are uncertain. We believe that, since 2007, the mortgage lending industry has experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime loans and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused almost all lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not conforming loans, FHA/VA-eligible loans or jumbo loans (which meet conforming underwriting guidelines other than loan size). Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications and any other limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financings in turn make it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of new homes and for some buyers of existing homes from move-up new home buyers to finance the purchase of the move-up new home buyer’s existing home. These factors have served to reduce the affordability of homes and the pool of qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult to sell to first time and first time move-up buyers which have long made up a substantial part of the affordable housing market. These reductions in demand would increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, and the duration and severity of the effects remain uncertain. 24 We also believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae (Federal National Mortgage Association) and Freddie Mac (Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) (“Government Sponsored Enterprises” or “GSEs”) to the mortgage industry is very important to the housing market. These entities have reported severe losses as a result of deteriorating housing and credit market conditions. These losses have reduced their equity and limited their ability to acquire mortgages. The director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”), James B. Lockhart III, on September 7, 2008 announced his decision to place Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into a conservatorship run by the FHFA. That plan contained three measures: an increase in the line of credit available to the GSEs from the U.S. Treasury, so as to provide liquidity; the right of the U.S. Treasury to purchase equity in the GSEs, so as to provide capital; and a consultative role for the Federal Reserve in a reformed GSE regulatory system. The U.S. Treasury further announced an additional increase in the line of credit for the GSEs, guaranteeing the backing of all losses suffered by these enterprises. The U.S. Treasury’s support of the two GSEs while under conservatorship of the FHFA was intended to promote stability in the secondary mortgage market and lower the cost of funding. The GSEs modestly increased their mortgage-backed securities portfolios through the end of 2009. To address systemic risk, in 2010 their portfolios began to be gradually reduced, largely through natural run off, and will eventually stabilize at a lower, less risky size. In order to further support the availability of mortgage financing for millions of Americans, the U.S. Treasury initiated a temporary program to purchase GSE mortgage-backed securities, which expired with the U.S. Treasury’s temporary authorities in December 2009. Coinciding with the Treasury purchase program was the Federal Reserve, which purchased $1.25 trillion worth of mortgage-backed securities through the end of March 2010. This program ended on March 31, 2010, as scheduled by the Federal Reserve. On September 21, 2011, the Federal Reserve announced that it would begin reinvesting the principal payments from its mortgage-backed securities holdings into additional purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities to help further support conditions in mortgage markets. On September 13, 2012, the Federal Reserve announced that it would again increase policy accommodation by purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month, would continue through the end of 2012 its program of extending the average maturity of its holdings of securities, and would maintain its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The Federal Reserve stated in that same announcement that these actions should put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. As of the date of this annual report, the 30-year fixed-rate single-family residential mortgage interest rate remains significantly below the rate that was available at the conclusion of the period of the Federal Reserve purchases in March 2010. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of such financing or on the liquidity provided by such enterprises could adversely affect interest rates and mortgage availability and could cause the number of homebuyers to decrease, which would increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We believe that the homebuilding industry’s strategies in response to the adverse conditions in the industry have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. We believe that, since the downturn began, most homebuilders have been focused on generating positive operating cash flow, resizing and reshaping their product for a more price-conscious consumer and adjusting finished new home inventories to meet demand, and did so in many cases by significantly reducing the new home prices and increasing the level of sales incentives. Since reaching a peak of approximately 1,283,000 new home sales in 2005, new home sales have declined each year, year-over-year, to a low of approximately 304,000 new home sales in 2011. We believe that the continued decline in new home sales is largely due to a decrease in consumer confidence, due principally to the constant and negative national housing, financial industry, and economic news. A more restrictive mortgage lending environment, unemployment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also impacted new home sales. Many of the factors that affect new home sales are beyond the control of the homebuilding industry. However, we believe that the housing market has bottomed and begun to recover. Home sales in 2012 rose to approximately 367,000. Homebuilders to whom we make loans will use the proceeds of our loans to construct homes. Homebuilders obtain the money to repay our loans by selling the homes they construct or by obtaining replacement financing from other lenders, and thus, the homebuilders’ ability to repay our loans is based primarily on the amount of money generated by the sale of such homes. A decrease in the number of new homes sold may increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, may reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. It is uncertain how long the reduction in sales and the increased level of cancellations will continue. Increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in other costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying new homes and adversely affect our business or our financial results. Demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in housing affordability. Most new home purchasers finance their home purchases through lenders providing mortgage financing. Since 2008, the mortgage lending industry has experienced significant instability. As a result of increased default rates and governmental initiatives to improve capital ratios, many mortgage lenders have tightened credit requirements and have reduced the amount of their lending with regard to residential mortgage loans. Fewer loan products, stricter loan qualification standards, and higher down payment requirements have made it more difficult for many potential homebuyers to finance the purchase of homes. Increases in interest rates may make houses more difficult to afford. Lack of availability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for homes. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing products may make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. 25 A reduction in the demand for new homes may reduce the amount and price of the residential home lots sold by the homebuilders and developers to which we loan money and/or increase the absorption period in which such home lots are purchased and, consequently, increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans. Increases in interest rates could increase the risk of default under our development loans. Developers and homebuilders to whom we make loans and with whom we enter into subordinate debt positions will use the proceeds of our loans and investments to develop raw real estate into residential home lots and construct homes. The developers and homebuilders obtain the money to repay our loans by reselling the residential home lots to homebuilders or individuals who will build single-family residences on the lots and/or selling the homes to homebuyers, or by obtaining replacement financing from other lenders. The developers’ or homebuilders’ ability to repay our loans will be based primarily on the amount of money generated by the developers’ or homebuilders’ sale of their inventory of single-family homes or residential lots. If interest rates increase and/or consumer mortgage credit standards tighten, the demand for single-family residences is likely to decrease. In such an interest rate and/or mortgage climate, developers and homebuilders to whom we have loaned money may be unable to generate sufficient income from the resale of single-family homes or residential lots to repay our loans. Accordingly, increases in single-family mortgage interest rates and/or the tightening of consumer mortgage credit standards could cause the number of homebuyers to decrease, which would increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The loans we make as part of our investments will generally be secured by collateral that is already encumbered, so our loans may have a higher risk than conventional real estate loans on residential properties. We plan to originate loans and purchase loans in respect of affiliated and unaffiliated third parties on land to be developed into residential lots, new and model homes and finished home inventories. Our goal is to obtain a first or subordinate lien on the underlying real property to secure our loans, and we generally will require a pledge of the equity ownership interests in the borrower itself to secure our loans, either as the sole collateral or in addition to our lien on the underlying real property. In some instances where the subject parcel is encumbered by a lien in favor of a third party other than us, we may, at our option, become the senior lender in order to protect the priority of our lien on the parcels. Our loans may also be secured by other assets of the borrower. While we will seek to obtain a guarantee of the borrower and/or its parent companies to further secure the borrower’s obligations to us, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will obtain such a guarantee in all cases. If a default occurs under one or more of our loans, payments to us could be reduced or postponed. Further, in the event of a default, we may be left with a security or ownership interest in finished homes or lots or unfinished homes or an undeveloped or partially developed parcel of real estate, which may have less value than a completed home or developed parcel. The guarantee of the borrower and/or its parent companies and other pledged assets, if any, may be insufficient to compensate us for any difference in the amounts due to us under a loan and the value of our interest in the subject parcel. Decreases in the value of the property underlying our loans may decrease the value of our assets. In most cases, we obtain a first or subordinate lien on the underlying real property to secure our loans (mortgage loans), and we also may require a pledge of all of the equity ownership interests in the borrower entity itself as additional security for our loans. In instances where we do not have a lien on the underlying real property, we obtain a pledge of all of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity itself to secure such loans and/or a pledge of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity or other parent entity that owns the borrower entity (so-called “mezzanine loans”). We also may require a pledge of additional assets of the borrower, liens against additional parcels of undeveloped and developed real property and/or the personal guarantees of principals or guarantees of operating entities in connection with our secured loans. To the extent that the value of the property that serves as security for these loans or investments is lower than we expect, the value of our assets, and consequently our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, will be adversely affected. Our investments and participation agreements with borrowers will expose us to various risks and will not guarantee that we will receive any amount under such agreements. The investments and participation agreements that we enter with borrowers will be separate from the loans that we will make to the borrowers. Participation agreements will be structured either as contracts entitling us to participate in the borrower’s profits or as joint venture investments organized as partnerships or limited liability companies in which we will have an equity interest. The participation agreements may represent an equity joint venture interest that will, and our investment will, expose us to all of the risks inherent in real estate investments generally and with real estate investments made with a co-venturer. These risks include, among others, the fact that there is no guaranteed return on the equity participations. In the event our loan is paid off prior to sale of the parcel, we would hold an equity participation that would be junior to any liens or claims against the parcel. Our joint venture participations could subject us to liabilities arising out of environmental claims or claims for injuries, tax levies or other charges against the owner of the parcel as well as from the risk of bankruptcy of our co-venturer. 26 We will be subject to the general market risks associated with real estate construction and development. Our financial performance will depend on the successful construction and/or development and sale of the homes and real estate parcels that we own or that serve as security for the loans we make to homebuilders and developers and that will be the subject of our participation agreements with borrowers. As a result, we will be subject to the general market risks of real estate construction and development, including weather conditions, the price and availability of materials used in the construction of the homes and development of the lots, environmental liabilities and zoning laws, and numerous other factors that may materially and adversely affect the success of the projects. In the event the market softens, the homebuilder or developer may require additional funding and such funding may not be available. In addition, if the market softens, the amount of capital required to be advanced and the required marketing time for such home or development may both increase, and the homebuilder’s or developer’s incentive to complete a particular home or real estate development may decrease. Such circumstances may reduce our profitability and the returns on our shareholders’ investments. If we are unable to raise substantial funds, we will be limited in the number and type of properties we may own or finance and the value of a shareholder’s investment will fluctuate with the performance of the specific investments we make. The Offering is being made on a reasonable best efforts basis, whereby the dealer manager and soliciting dealers participating in the Offering are only required to use their reasonable best efforts to sell our shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of the shares. As a result, we cannot assure shareholders as to the amount of proceeds that will be raised in the Offering or that we will achieve sales of the maximum offering amount. If we are unable to raise substantial funds in the Offering, we will purchase fewer real properties and originate and purchase fewer loans and equity positions, resulting in less diversification in terms of the number of real properties owned and financed, the geographic regions in which such real properties are located and the types of real properties securing the secured loans in which we invest. In such event, the likelihood of our profitability being affected by the performance of any one of our investments will increase. A shareholder’s investment in our shares will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified portfolio of secured assets. In addition, our fixed operating expenses, as a percentage of gross income, would be higher, and our financial condition and ability to pay distributions could be adversely affected if we are unable to raise substantial funds. If we lose or are unable to obtain key personnel or one or more of our key personnel decides to compete with us, our ability to implement our investment strategy could be delayed or hindered. We will depend on the diligence, experience and skill of certain executive officers and other key personnel of us, our Advisor and its affiliates, including Todd F. Etter, Hollis M. Greenlaw, Michael K. Wilson, Ben L. Wissink, Melissa H. Youngblood, Cara D. Obert and David A. Hanson, for the selection, acquisition, structuring and monitoring of our lending and investment activities. These individuals are not bound by employment agreements with us; however, all are bound by employment agreements with UMT Holdings, the parent company of our Advisor and our asset manager. If any of our key personnel were to cease their affiliation with us, our Advisor or its affiliates, our operating results could suffer. Affiliates of our Advisor maintain key person life insurance with respect to Hollis M. Greenlaw, Todd F. Etter and Ben L. Wissink. We have not obtained life insurance policies on any other key personnel involved in our operations and, therefore, have no insulation against extraneous events that may adversely affect their ability to implement our investment strategies. We also believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our Advisor’s and its affiliates’ ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of any key person could harm our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of key personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategy could be delayed or hindered. 27 In addition, many of the officers and key personnel of us, our Advisor and its affiliates are bound by non-competition agreements, and there are remedies under certain state laws if such officers or key personnel conduct activities that compete with us either during or after their employment. However, our ability to prohibit former employees from competing with us, our Advisor or its affiliates may be limited in many respects, and we cannot assure our shareholders that one or more of those persons may not choose to compete with us, or that we could limit their ability to do so or recover anything in such an event. Competition by these officers or key employees may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to recover claims against our independent trustees are limited, which could reduce our shareholders’ and our recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a trustee has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Subject to certain exceptions, our declaration of trust provides that no independent trustee will be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages and that we will generally indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. As a result, our shareholders and we may have more limited rights against our independent trustees than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our shareholders’ and our recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent trustees (as well as by our other trustees, officers, employees of our Advisor and agents) in some cases, which would decrease the cash otherwise available for distributions to our shareholders. Other real estate investment programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates have experienced adverse business developments, and our business may be affected by similar conditions. The prior programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates have occasionally been adversely affected by the limited supply of suitable loans available for purchase. When sufficient numbers of suitable loans historically were not available for purchase, UMT experienced excess uninvested cash, resulting in lower earnings per share in 1998 and 1999. Increased loan default rates resulted in decreased net income for UMT for the years 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. As a result, UMT made distributions in excess of earnings for the period from September 30, 1997 through December 31, 2005 and in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Furthermore, decreases in the available amount and use of leverage, along with increases in the amount of equity in relation to debt, result in lower returns on equity, as was experienced by UDF I and UDF II for the years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. The continuing operations of prior programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates can be expected in the future to experience decreases in net income when economic conditions decline, specifically the availability of suitable loans, loan default increases and decreases in the amount and availability of leverage. Some of these programs may be unable to optimize their returns to investors because of requirements to liquidate when adverse economic conditions cause real estate prices to be relatively depressed. In addition, prior programs may be required to assume or pay off senior debt in order to protect their investments. Our business will be affected by similar conditions, and no assurance can be made that our program or other programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates will ultimately be successful in meeting their investment objectives. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We will be subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with our Advisor and its affiliates, including the material conflicts discussed below. When conflicts arise between us and our Advisor and its affiliates, they may not be resolved in our favor, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Our Advisor and its affiliates will have equity interests and/or profit participations in developments we finance and may have a greater incentive to make loans with respect to such developments and/or provide credit enhancements to preserve and/or enhance their economic interest in such development. We expect to make loans and/or provide credit enhancement transactions to affiliates of our Advisor or asset manager. In connection with making such loans or providing such credit enhancements, we will obtain an appraisal concerning the underlying property from an independent expert who is in the business of rendering opinions regarding the value of assets of the type held by us and who is qualified to perform such work. In addition, a majority of the trustees, including a majority of the independent trustees, who are not otherwise interested in the transaction must approve all transactions with our Advisor or its affiliates as being fair and reasonable to us and on terms and conditions not less favorable to us than those available from unaffiliated third parties. We also will obtain a mortgagee’s or owner’s title insurance policy or a commitment as to the priority of the secured loan as part of our underwriting process. If an affiliate of our Advisor has an equity interest or participation interest in a development that requires a loan or credit enhancement, our Advisor may have a greater incentive to make a loan with respect to such development to preserve and/or enhance its economic interest in such development. As of December 31, 2012, our 18 loans to related parties have an outstanding balance of approximately $57.4 million. 28 Our Advisor is an affiliate of the general partners of UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF and may not always be able to allocate investment opportunities on a pro rata basis among us, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF. Our Advisor is an affiliate of the general partners of UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF, all of which engage in the same businesses as us. Our Advisor, asset manager and the investment committee will seek to equitably apportion among us, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF all investment opportunities of which it becomes aware. We have entered into a participation agreement with UDF I, UDF II, UDF III, UDF LOF and UMTH LD pursuant to which we will invest in the same loans and transactions as UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF on a pro rata basis based on the amount of capital held by each entity that is available for investment in accordance with each fund’s risk profile and capital available for investment. However, circumstances may arise, due to availability of capital or other reasons, when it is not possible for us to make an investment on such pro rata basis. Our Advisor may determine not to invest in otherwise suitable investments in which UDF I, UDF II, UDF III or UDF LOF will participate in order for us to avoid unrelated business taxable income, or “UBTI,” which is generally defined as income derived from any unrelated trade or business carried on by a tax-exempt entity or by a partnership of which it is a member, and which is generally subject to taxation. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to invest in all investment opportunities of which our Advisor becomes aware that may be suitable for us on a pro rata basis or otherwise. Our founders may form other companies that will engage in the same businesses as we will, and we may not always be able to participate in investment opportunities on a pro rata basis between us and such other companies. Our Advisor and its affiliates may engage in additional real estate-related activities in the future, including the activities in which we engage, and may form new entities to engage in these activities. If new companies are formed for the purpose of engaging in the businesses in which we engage, our founders intend to allocate investment opportunities among us, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III, UDF LOF and the new entities equitably. However, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to participate in all or any investment opportunities in which such other companies participate, on an equitable basis or otherwise. Certain of the principals of our Advisor will face conflicts of interest relating to the extension and purchase of loans, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Certain of the principals of our Advisor, including Mr. Etter, Mr. Greenlaw, Michael K. Wilson, Ben L. Wissink, Melissa H. Youngblood and Cara D. Obert, are also principals, directors, officers and equity holders of other entities, including UDF I, UDF II, UDF III, UDF LOF, UMT Holdings and UMT Services, and they may also in the future hold positions with, and interests in, other entities engaged in real estate activities. These multiple responsibilities may create conflicts of interest for these individuals if they are presented with opportunities that may benefit us and their other affiliates. These individuals may be incentivized to allocate opportunities to other entities rather than to us if they are more highly compensated based on investments made by other entities. In determining which opportunities to allocate to us and to their other affiliates, these individuals will consider the investment strategy and guidelines of each entity. Because we cannot predict the precise circumstances under which future potential conflicts may arise, we intend to address potential conflicts on a case- by-case basis. There is a risk that our Advisor will choose an investment for us that provides lower returns to us than a loan made by one of our affiliates. Investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which any conflicts of interest involving our Advisor and its affiliates are resolved before making their investment. 29 Our Advisor and its affiliates, including all of our executive officers and some of our trustees, will face conflicts of interest caused by their compensation arrangements with us, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interests of our shareholders. Our Advisor and its affiliates are entitled to substantial fees from us in connection with the Offering and our business operations. These fees could influence our Advisor’s advice to us as well as the judgment of affiliates of our Advisor performing services for us. Among other matters, these compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to: ·the continuation, renewal or enforcement of our agreements with our Advisor and its affiliates, including the advisory agreement; ·borrowings, which would increase the fees payable to our Advisor; ·whether and when we seek to list our common shares of beneficial interest on a national securities exchange, which listing could entitle our Advisor to the payment of fees; and ·whether and when we seek to sell the company or its assets, which sale could entitle our Advisor or one of its affiliates to the payment of fees. We will face risks relating to joint ventures with our affiliates and third parties that are not present with other methods of investing in properties and secured loans. We may enter into joint ventures with certain of our affiliates, as well as third parties, for the funding of loans or the acquisition of properties. We may also purchase loan participation interests or loans through joint ventures or in partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements with our affiliates, the sellers of the loans, affiliates of the sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in secured loans, including, for example: ·that such affiliate, co-venturer or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, which may cause us to disagree with our affiliate, co-venturer or partner as to the best course of action with respect to the investment and which disagreement may not be resolved to our satisfaction; ·that such affiliate, co-venturer or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, which may cause us not to realize the return anticipated from our investment; or ·that it may be difficult for us to sell our interest in any such participation, co-venture or partnership. Moreover, in the event we determine to foreclose on the collateral underlying a non-performing investment, we may be required to obtain the cooperation of our affiliate, co-venturer or partner to do so. We anticipate that we will participate with our affiliates in certain development projects where we and our affiliates make loans to the borrower, in which case we expect to enter into an inter-creditor agreement that will define our rights and priority with respect to the underlying collateral. Our inability to foreclose on a property acting alone may cause significant delay in the foreclosure process, in which time the value of the property may decline. As of December 31, 2012, we have not entered into any joint ventures. As of December 31, 2012, we are participating in 9 loans originated by affiliates, with an outstanding balance of approximately $29.4 million. Our Advisor will face additional conflicts of interest relating to loan participations with affiliated entities and may make decisions that disproportionately benefit one or more of our affiliated entities instead of us. Our Advisor also serves as the advisor for UMT and is an affiliate of the general partners of UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF, all of which engage in the same businesses as us. Because our Advisor or its affiliates will have advisory and management arrangements with these other United Development Funding programs, it is likely that they will encounter opportunities to invest in or acquire interests in secured loans, participations and/or properties to the benefit of one of the United Development Funding programs, but not others. Our Advisor or its affiliates may make decisions to finance certain properties, which decisions might disproportionately benefit a United Development Funding program other than us. In such event, our results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Because our Advisor and its affiliates are affiliated with UMT, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF, agreements and transactions among the parties with respect to any loan participation among two or more of such parties will not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers. Under these loan participation arrangements, we may not have a first priority position with respect to the underlying collateral. In the event that a co-venturer has a right of first refusal to buy out the other co-venturer, it may be unable to finance such buy-out at that time. In addition, to the extent that our co-venturer is an affiliate of our Advisor, certain conflicts of interest will exist. As of December 31, 2012, we are participating in 9 loans originated by affiliates, with an outstanding balance of approximately $29.4 million. 30 Our Advisor’s officers and key personnel will face conflicts of interest relating to the allocation of their time and other resources among the various entities that they serve or have interests in, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Certain of the officers and key personnel of our Advisor will face competing demands relating to their time and resources because they are also affiliated with entities with investment programs similar to ours, and they may have other business interests as well, including business interests that currently exist and business interests they develop in the future. Because these persons have competing interests for their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. As a result, they may devote less time and resources to our business than is necessary. If this occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. There is no separate counsel for certain of our affiliates and us, which could result in conflicts of interest. Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP acts as legal counsel to us, our Advisor and certain of its affiliates. If the interests of the various parties become adverse, under the Code of Professional Responsibility of the legal profession, Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP may be precluded from representing any one or all of such parties. If any situation arises in which our interests appear to be in conflict with those of our Advisor or its affiliates, additional counsel may be retained by one or more of the parties to assure that their interests are adequately protected. Risks Related to Our Business in General A limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover. Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our trustees to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of trustees, no person may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares or more than 9.8% of the number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide shareholders with the opportunity to receive a control premium for their shares. Our declaration of trust permits our board of trustees to issue securities with terms that may subordinate the rights of the holders of our current common shares of beneficial interest or discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our declaration of trust permits our board of trustees to issue up to 350,000,000 common shares of beneficial interest and up to 50,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest. Our board of trustees, without any action by our shareholders, may (1) amend our declaration of trust from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series we have authority to issue or (2) classify or reclassify any unissued shares of beneficial interest from time to time in one or more classes or series of shares and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of any such shares. Thus, our board of trustees could authorize the issuance of such shares with terms and conditions that could subordinate the rights of the holders of our current common shares of beneficial interest or have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common shares of beneficial interest. Maryland law prohibits certain business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us to be acquired. Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested shareholder is defined as: 31 ·any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of the company; or ·an affiliate or associate of the company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the company. A person is not an interested shareholder under the statute if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the shareholder otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of trustees may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of trustees. After the expiration of the five-year period described above, any business combination between the Maryland company and an interested shareholder must generally be recommended by the board of trustees of the company and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: ·80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the then outstanding voting shares of the company; and ·Two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of the company other than voting shares held by the interested shareholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interest shareholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the holder of the company’s common shares of beneficial interest receives a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its shares. Maryland law also permits various exemptions from these provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of trustees before the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. Our board of trustees has exempted any business combination with UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS and, provided that such business combination is first approved by the board of trustees, any business combination with any other person. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS or, if the board of trustees first approves the business combination, any other person. As a result, UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our shareholders, without compliance with the super-majority vote requirements and the other provisions of the business combination statute. Should the board of trustees opt back in to the business combination statute or fail to first approve a business combination with any person other than UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS, the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Maryland law also limits the ability of a third party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing trustees. Under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, “control shares” of a Maryland company acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the company’s disinterested shareholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Common shares of beneficial interest owned by interested shareholders, that is, by the acquirer, by officers or by employees who are trustees of the company, are excluded from the vote on whether to accord voting rights to the control shares. “Control shares” are voting shares that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means, subject to certain exceptions, the acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares. The control share acquisition statute does not apply (1) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the company is a party to the transaction or (2) to acquisitions approved or exempted by a company’s declaration of trust or bylaws. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of beneficial interest. We can offer no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. This statute could have the effect of discouraging offers from third parties to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer by anyone other than our affiliates or any of their affiliates. 32 Our declaration of trust includes a provision that may discourage a person from launching a tender offer for our shares. Our declaration of trust provides that any tender offer made by any person, including any “mini-tender” offer, must comply with most provisions of Regulation 14D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The offeror must provide our company notice of such tender offer at least ten business days before initiating the tender offer. If the offeror does not comply with these requirements, our company will have the right to redeem that offeror’s shares and any shares acquired in such tender offer. In addition, the non-complying offeror will be responsible for all of our company’s expenses in connection with that offeror’s noncompliance. This provision of our declaration of trust may discourage a person from initiating a tender offer for our shares and prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium price for their shares in such a transaction. Shareholders’ investment returns will be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act imposing, among other things: ·Limitations on capital structure; ·Restrictions on specified investments; ·Prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and ·Compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. We conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We intend to qualify for an exclusion from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which generally means that at least 55% of our portfolio must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and at least another 25% of our portfolio must be comprised of additional qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. Although we monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each acquisition, we may not be able to maintain this exclusion from registration. How we determine to classify our assets for purposes of the Investment Company Act will be based in large measure upon no-action positions taken by the SEC in the past. We believe that we have conducted our operations to comply with these no-action positions. However, these no-action positions were issued in accordance with factual situations that may be substantially different from the factual situations we may face, and a number of these no-action positions were issued more than ten years ago. No assurance can be given that the SEC will concur with our classification of our assets. Future revisions to the Investment Company Act or further guidance from the SEC may cause us to lose our exclusion from registration or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our investment strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exclusion, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire assets that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. Further, we may not be able to invest in a sufficient number of qualifying real estate assets and/or real estate-related assets to comply with the exclusion from registration. We may determine to operate through our operating partnership or other wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries that may be formed in the future. If so, we intend to operate in such a manner that we would not come within the definition of an investment company under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act, and we intend to operate our operating partnership and any other subsidiary or subsidiaries in a manner that would exclude such entities from registration under the Investment Company Act pursuant to the exclusions provided by Sections 3(c)(1), 3(c)(5)(C) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. 33 As part of our Advisor’s obligations under the advisory agreement, our Advisor will agree to refrain from taking any action which, in its sole judgment made in good faith, would subject us to regulation under the Investment Company Act. Failure to maintain an exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act would require us to significantly restructure our business plan. For example, because affiliate transactions are severely limited under the Investment Company Act, we would not be able to enter into transactions with any of our affiliates if we are required to register as an investment company, and we may be required to terminate our advisory agreement and any other agreements with affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and pay distributions. Shareholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations. Our board of trustees determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of trustees may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the shareholders. Our declaration of trust sets forth the shareholder voting rights required to be set forth therein under the Statement of Policy Regarding Real Estate Investment Trusts published by the North American Securities Administrators Association. Under our declaration of trust and the Maryland REIT Law, our shareholders currently have a right to vote only on the following matters: ·the election or removal of trustees; ·the amendment of our declaration of trust, except that our board of trustees may amend our declaration of trust without shareholder approval to: §change our name; §increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares; §increase or decrease the number of the shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue; §effect certain reverse stock splits; or §qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code or the Maryland REIT Law; ·our termination; and ·certain mergers, consolidations and sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets. All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of trustees. Our board of trustees may change the methods of implementing our investment policies and objectives without shareholder approval, which could alter the nature of a shareholder’s investment. Our declaration of trust requires that our independent trustees review our investment policies at least annually to determine that the policies we are following are in the best interest of the shareholders. These policies may change over time. The methods of implementing our investment policies may also vary, as new investment techniques are developed. The methods of implementing our investment policies, objectives and procedures may be altered by our board of trustees without the approval of our shareholders. As a result, the nature of our shareholders’ investment could change without their consent. Shareholders are limited in their ability to sell their shares pursuant to our redemption program. Any investor requesting repurchase of their shares pursuant to our share redemption program will be required to certify to us that such investor acquired the shares by either (1) a purchase directly from us or (2) a transfer from the original subscriber by way of a bona fide gift not for value to, or for the benefit of, a member of the subscriber’s immediate or extended family or through a transfer to a custodian, trustee or other fiduciary for the account of the subscriber or his/her immediate or extended family in connection with an estate planning transaction, including by bequest or inheritance upon death or by operation of law. Shareholders should also be fully aware that our share redemption program contains certain restrictions and limitations. Shares will be redeemed on a monthly basis, as follows: first, pro rata as to redemptions upon the death of a shareholder; next, pro rata among shareholders willing to have their shares redeemed at the then-current net asset value, as determined by our board of trustees in its sole discretion; next, pro rata as to shareholders who demonstrate to our satisfaction another involuntary exigent circumstance, such as bankruptcy; and finally, pro rata as to other redemption requests, with a priority given to the earliest redemption requests received by us. We will not redeem in excess of 5% of the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the trailing twelve-month period prior to the redemption date. In addition, the cash available for redemption generally will be limited to 1% of our operating cash flow from the previous fiscal year plus any proceeds from our DRIP. Further, our board of trustees reserves the right to reject any request for redemption or to terminate, suspend, or amend the share redemption program at any time. Therefore, in making a decision to purchase shares, investors should not assume that they will be able to sell any of their shares back to us pursuant to our redemption program. 34 If shareholders are able to resell their shares to us pursuant to our redemption program, they will likely receive substantially less than the fair market value for their shares. The purchase price for shares we repurchase under our redemption program, for the period beginning after a shareholder has held their shares for a period of one year, will be (1) 92% of the purchase price for any shares held less than two years, (2) 94% of the purchase price of any shares held for at least two years but less than three years, (3) 96% of the purchase price of any shares held at least three years but less than four years, (4) 98% of the purchase price of any shares held at least four years but less than five years and (5) for any shares held at least five years, the lesser of the purchase price actually paid or the fair market value of the shares as determined by our annual valuations. However, at any time we are engaged in an offering of our shares, the per share price for shares purchased under our redemption program will always be equal to or less than the applicable per share offering price. The price we will pay for redeemed shares will be offset by any net proceeds from capital transactions previously distributed to the redeeming shareholder as a return of capital. Accordingly, shareholders would likely receive less by selling their shares back to us than they would receive if our investments were sold for their estimated values and such proceeds were distributed in our liquidation. A shareholder’s interest in us may be diluted if the price we pay in respect of shares redeemed under our share redemption program exceeds the net asset value of our shares. The prices we may pay for shares redeemed under our share redemption program may exceed the net asset value of such shares at the time of redemption. If this were to be the case, investors who do not elect or are unable to have some or all of their shares redeemed under our share redemption program would suffer dilution in the value of their shares as a result of redemptions. We will create a reserve from our net interest income and net proceeds from capital transactions to recover some of the organization and offering expenses, including selling commissions and dealer manager fees we will incur in connection with the offering of our shares in order to cause the net asset value of the company to be on parity with or greater than the amount we may pay for shares under our share redemption program. However, it is likely that non-redeeming shareholders will experience dilution as a result of redemptions which occur at a time when the net asset value has decreased, regardless of the reserve. We will have broad discretion in how we use the net proceeds of the Offering. We will have broad discretion in how to use the net proceeds of the Offering, and shareholders will be relying on our judgment regarding the application of the proceeds of the Offering. Shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which the net proceeds of the Offering are invested or the economic merits of particular assets to be acquired or loans to be made. Our Advisor’s subordinated incentive fee may create an incentive for our Advisor to make speculative investments. Because the incentive fee is subordinate to the payment of cumulative distributions to our shareholders, our Advisor’s interest is not wholly aligned with those of our shareholders. The subordinated nature of the incentive fee means that our Advisor will not receive such fee if our investments result only in minimal returns. Our Advisor’s subordinated incentive fee may create an incentive for our Advisor to advise us to make investments that have a higher potential return but are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of this incentive fee. We established the offering price for our shares on an arbitrary basis; as a result, the offering price for our shares, and the price at which shares will be redeemed pursuant to our share redemption program, is not related to any independent valuation. Our board of trustees has arbitrarily determined the selling price of the shares and the price at which shares will be redeemed pursuant to our share redemption program. Such prices bear no relationship to our book or asset values, or to any other established criteria for valuing outstanding common shares of beneficial interest or other ownership interests. 35 Payment of fees to our Advisor and its affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution. Our Advisor and its affiliates will perform services for us in connection with the offer and sale of the shares, the selection and acquisition of our investments, and the administration of our investments. They will be paid substantial fees for these services, which will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to shareholders. We are under no obligation to continue to pay cash distributions. Distributions have been, and may continue to be, paid from capital and there can be no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash distributions, or that distributions will increase over time. There are many factors, including factors beyond our control that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to shareholders. Distributions are based principally on cash available from our loans, real estate securities, property acquisitions and other investments. The amount of cash available for distributions will be affected by our ability to invest in real estate properties, secured loans, mezzanine loans or participations in loans as offering proceeds become available, the yields on the secured loans in which we invest, amounts set aside to create a retained earnings reserve and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. We are under no obligation to pay cash distributions and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to pay or maintain distributions or that distributions will increase over time. Nor can we give any assurance that income from the properties we purchase or the loans we make or acquire, or in which we participate, will increase or that future investments will increase our cash available for distributions to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of trustees in establishing the distribution rate to shareholders. In addition, our board of trustees, in its discretion, may reinvest or retain for working capital any portion of our cash on hand. We cannot assure our shareholders that sufficient cash will be available to continue to pay distributions to them. Adverse market and economic conditions will negatively affect our returns and profitability. Our results are sensitive to changes in market and economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rate levels, supply of new and existing homes, supply of finished lots and the costs associated with constructing new homes and developing land. We may be affected by market and economic challenges, including the following, any of which may result from a continued or exacerbated general economic slowdown experienced by the nation as a whole or by the local economies where properties subject to our secured loans may be located: ·poor economic conditions may result in a slowing of new home sales and corresponding lot purchases by builders resulting in defaults by borrowers under our secured loans; ·job transfers and layoffs may cause new home sales to decrease; ·lack of liquidity in the secondary mortgage market; ·tighter credit standards for home buyers; ·general unavailability of commercial credit; and ·illiquidity of financial institutions. The length and severity of any economic downturn cannot be predicted. Our operations could be negatively affected to the extent that an economic downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions and make additional investments. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. Periodically, we may have cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits over any federally insured amount. The loss of our deposits could reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of our shareholders’ investments. Risks Related to the Secured Loan Lending Business Defaults on our secured loans will reduce our income and shareholders’ distributions. Because a significant number of our assets will be secured loans, failure of a borrower to pay interest or repay a loan will have adverse consequences on our income. For example, 36 ·failure by a borrower to repay loans or interest on loans will reduce our income and, consequently, distributions to our shareholders; ·we may not be able to resolve the default prior to foreclosure of the property securing the loan; ·we may be required to expend substantial funds for an extended period to complete or develop foreclosed properties; ·the subsequent income and sale proceeds we receive from the foreclosed properties may be less than competing investments; and ·the proceeds from sales of foreclosed properties may be less than our investment in the properties. Investments in land development loans present additional risks compared to loans secured by operating properties. We may invest up to 10% of the gross offering proceeds in loans to purchase unimproved real property, and as of December 31, 2012, we have invested 0% of the gross offering proceeds in such loans. For purposes of this limitation, “unimproved real property” is defined as real property which has the following three characteristics: (a) an equity interest in real property which was not acquired for the purpose of producing rental or other income; (b) has no development or construction in process on such land; and (c) no development or construction on such land is planned in good faith to commence within one year. Land development mortgage loans may be riskier than loans secured by improved properties, because: ·until disposition, the property does not generate separate income for the borrower to make loan payments; ·the completion of planned development may require additional development financing by the borrower, which may not be available; ·depending on the velocity or amount of lot sales to homebuilders, demand for lots may decrease, causing the price of the lots to decrease; ·depending on the velocity or amount of lot sales to developers or homebuilders, demand for land may decrease, causing the price of the land to decrease; ·there is no assurance that we will be able to sell unimproved land promptly if we are forced to foreclose upon it; and ·lot sale contracts are generally not “specific performance” contracts, and the borrower may have no recourse if a homebuilder elects not to purchase lots. Investments in second, mezzanine and wraparound mortgage loans present additional risks compared to loans secured by first deeds of trust. We expect that we will be the junior lender with respect to some of our loans. We may invest in (a) second mortgage loans (some of which are also secured by pledges), which investments represent approximately 28% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2012; (b) co-investment loans (which are secured by pledges and collateral-sharing arrangements permitting us to share in the proceeds of second liens held by affiliates), which investments represent 0% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2012; (c) mezzanine loans (which are secured by pledges), which investments represent approximately 3% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2012; and (d) wraparound mortgage loans, which investments represent 0% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2012. A wraparound, or all-inclusive, mortgage loan is a loan in which the lender combines the remainder of an old loan with a new loan at an interest rate that blends the rate charged on the old loan with the current market rate. In a second mortgage loan and in a mezzanine loan, our rights as a lender, including our rights to receive payment on foreclosure, will be subject to the rights of the prior mortgage lender. In a wraparound mortgage loan, our rights will be similarly subject to the rights of any prior mortgage lender, but the aggregate indebtedness evidenced by our loan documentation will be the prior mortgage loans in addition to the new funds we invest. Under a wraparound mortgage loan, we would receive all payments from the borrower and forward to any senior lender its portion of the payments we receive. Because all of these types of loans are subject to the prior mortgage lender’s right to payment on foreclosure, we incur a greater risk when we invest in each of these types of loans. 37 Credit enhancements provided by us are subject to specific risks relating to the particular borrower and are subject to the general risks of investing in residential real estate. We may provide credit enhancements to real estate developers, homebuilders, land bankers and other real estate investors (such credit enhancements may take the form of a loan guarantee, the pledge of assets, a letter of credit or an inter-creditor agreement provided by us to a third-party lender for the benefit of a borrower and are intended to enhance the creditworthiness of the borrower, thereby affording the borrower credit at terms it would otherwise be unable to obtain). Our provision of credit enhancements will involve special risks relating to the particular borrower under the third-party loan, including the financial condition and business outlook of the borrower. In addition, the borrowers who receive our credit enhancements are subject to the inherent risks associated with residential real estate. Many of our loans will require balloon payments, which are riskier than loans with fully amortized payments. We anticipate that substantially all of our loans will have balloon payments or reductions to principal tied to net cash from the sale of developed lots and the release formula created by the senior lender (i.e., the conditions under which principal is repaid to the senior lender, if any), and as of December 31, 2012, 100% of our loans have balloon payments or reductions to principal tied to net cash. A balloon payment is a large principal balance that is payable after a period of time during which the borrower has repaid none or only a small portion of the principal balance. Loans with balloon payments are riskier than loans with even payments of principal over an extended time period, such as 15 or 30 years, because the borrower’s repayment often depends on its ability to refinance the loan or sell the developed lots profitably when the loan comes due. There are no specific criteria used in evaluating the credit quality of borrowers for mortgage loans requiring balloon payments. Furthermore, a substantial period of time may elapse between the review of the financial statements of the borrower and the date when the balloon payment is due. As a result, there is no assurance that a borrower will have sufficient resources to make a balloon payment when due. The interest-only loans we make or acquire may be subject to greater risk of default and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our loans, which may result in losses to us. We will make and acquire interest-only loans or loans requiring reductions to accrued interest tied to net cash, and as of December 31, 2012, 100% of the loans we have made and acquired are interest-only loans or loans requiring reductions to accrued interest tied to net cash. Interest-only loans typically cost the borrower less in monthly loan payments than fully-amortizing loans which require a payment on principal as well as interest. This lower cost may enable a borrower to acquire a more expensive property than if the borrower was entering into a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. Borrowers utilizing interest-only loans are dependent on the appreciation of the value of the underlying property, and the sale or refinancing of such property, to pay down the interest-only loan since none of the principal balance is being paid down with the borrowers’ monthly payments. If the value of the underlying property declines due to market or other factors, it is likely that the borrower would hold a property that is worth less than the mortgage balance on the property. Thus, there may be greater risk of default by borrowers who enter into interest-only loans. In addition, interest-only loans include an interest reserve in the loan amount. If such reserve is required to be funded due to a borrower’s non-payment, the loan-to-value ratio for that loan will increase, possibly above generally acceptable levels. In the event of a defaulted interest-only loan, we would acquire the underlying collateral which may have declined in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. Any of these factors may result in losses to us. Larger loans result in less portfolio diversity and may increase risk, and the concentration of loans with a common borrower may increase our risk. We intend to invest in loans that individually constitute an average amount equal to the lesser of (a) 1% to 3% of the total amount raised in the Offering, or (b) $2.5 million to $15 million. However, we may invest in larger loans depending on such factors as our performance and the value of the collateral. These larger loans are riskier because they may reduce our ability to diversify our loan portfolio. Our largest loan to a single borrower will not exceed an amount equal to 20% of the total capital contributions raised in the Offering, and as of December 31, 2012, our largest loan to a single borrower is equal to approximately 7% of the total capital contributions raised in the Offering. 38 The concentration of loans with a common borrower may increase our risks. We may invest in multiple mortgage loans that share a common borrower or loans to related borrowers. As of December 31, 2012, we have invested approximately 55% of our offering proceeds in 38 loans to our largest group of related borrowers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other inability of any borrower that is the subject of multiple loans to pay interest or repay principal on its loans would have adverse consequences on our income and reduce the amount of funds available for distribution to investors. In addition, we expect to be dependent on a limited number of borrowers for a large portion of our business. The more concentrated our portfolio is with one or a few borrowers, the greater credit risk we face. The loss of any one of these borrowers would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Incorrect or changed property values could result in losses and decreased distributions to our shareholders. We depend primarily upon our real estate security to protect us on the loans that we make. We depend partly upon the skill of independent appraisers to value the security underlying our loans and partly upon our Advisor’s internal underwriting and appraisal process. However, notwithstanding the experience of the appraisers selected by our Advisor, they or our Advisor may make mistakes, or regardless of decisions made at the time of funding, market conditions may deteriorate for various reasons, causing a decrease to the value of the security for our loans. As a result, there may be less security than anticipated at the time the loan was originally made. If there is less security and a default occurs, we may not recover the full amount of our loan, thus reducing the amount of funds available to distribute to our shareholders. Changes in market interest rates may reduce our income and distributions to our shareholders. A substantial portion of all of our loans are fixed-interest rate loans. Market interest rates on investments comparable to the shares could materially increase above the general level of our fixed-rate loans. Our distributions could then be less than the yield our shareholders may obtain from these other investments. We will also make loans with variable interest rates, which will cause variations in the yield to us from these loans. We may make loans with interest rate guarantee provisions in them, requiring a minimum period of months or years of earned interest even if the loan is paid off during the guarantee period. The duration of the guarantee is subject to negotiation and will likely vary from loan to loan. Other than these provisions, the majority of our loans will not include prepayment penalties for a borrower paying off a loan prior to maturity. The absence of a prepayment penalty in our loans may lead borrowers to refinance higher interest rate loans in a market of falling interest rates. This would then require us to reinvest the prepayment proceeds in loans or alternative short-term investments with lower interest rates and a corresponding lower yield to our shareholders. All of these risks increase as the length of maturity of a loan increases and the amount of cash available for new higher interest loans decreases. A material increase in market interest rates could result in a decrease in the supply of suitable secured loans to us, as there will likely be fewer attractive transactions for borrowers and less activity in the marketplace. Some losses that borrowers might incur may not be insured and may result in defaults that would increase our shareholders’ risk. Our loans require that borrowers of interim construction loans carry adequate hazard insurance for our benefit. Some events are, however, either uninsurable or insurance coverage is economically not practicable. Losses from earthquakes, floods or mudslides, for example, may be uninsured and cause losses to us on entire loans. If a borrower allows insurance to lapse, an event of loss could occur before we become aware of the lapse and have time to obtain insurance ourselves. Insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover property losses, even though our Advisor imposes insurance requirements on borrowers that it believes are adequate. Foreclosures create additional ownership risks to us of unexpected increased costs or decreased income. When we acquire property by foreclosure, we have economic and liability risks as the owner, including: ·less income and reduced cash flows on foreclosed properties than could be earned and received on secured loans; ·selling the homes or lots to homebuyers or homebuilders; ·selling the land to developers, homebuilders or other real estate investors; ·controlling construction or development and holding expenses; ·coping with general and local market conditions; 39 ·complying with changes in laws and regulations pertaining to taxes, use, zoning and environmental protection; and ·possible liability for injury to persons and property. If any of these risks were to materialize, then the return on the particular investment could be reduced, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we were found to have violated applicable usury laws, we would be subject to penalties and other possible risks. Usury laws generally regulate the amount of interest that may lawfully be charged on indebtedness. Each state has its own distinct usury laws. We believe that our loans will not violate applicable usury laws (as of December 31, 2012, the highest interest rate we have charged on an annualized basis is 15%). There is a risk, however, that a court could determine that our loans do violate applicable usury laws. If we were found to have violated applicable usury laws, we could be subject to penalties, including fines equal to three times the amount of usurious interest collected and restitution to the borrower. Additionally, usury laws often provide that a loan that violates usury laws is unenforceable. If we are subject to penalties or restitution or if our loan agreements are adjudged unenforceable by a court, it would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we would have difficulty making distributions to our shareholders. General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Our operating results may be affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general. Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of assets related to the real estate industry, including: ·changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds; ·changes in general economic or local conditions; ·changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and ·periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the amount of income we receive from our investments. We borrow money to make loans or purchase some of our real estate assets. If we fail to obtain or renew sufficient funding on favorable terms, we will be limited in our ability to make loans or purchase assets, which will harm our results of operations. Furthermore, our shareholders’ risks will increase if defaults occur. We have incurred and may continue to incur substantial debt. We incur, when appropriate, debt at the asset level. Asset level leverage will be determined by the anticipated term of the investment and the cash flow expected by the investment. Asset level leverage is expected to range from 0% to 90% of the asset value. In addition, we incur debt at the fund level. Our board of trustees has adopted a policy to generally limit our fund level borrowings to 50% of the aggregate fair market value of our real estate properties or secured loans once we have invested a majority of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, this offering and subsequent offerings, if any. However, we are permitted by our declaration of trust to borrow up to 300% of our net assets, and may borrow in excess of such amount if such excess borrowing is approved by a majority of our independent trustees and disclosed in our next quarterly report to shareholders, along with justification for such excess. Generally, loans we obtain are secured with recourse to all of our assets, which will put those assets at risk of forfeiture if we are unable to pay our debts. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends, in part, on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. We expect to depend on a few lenders to provide the primary credit facilities for our investments. In addition, our existing indebtedness may limit our ability to make additional borrowings. If our lenders do not allow us to renew our borrowings or we cannot replace maturing borrowings on favorable terms or at all, we might have to sell our investment assets under adverse market conditions, which would harm our results of operations and may result in permanent losses. In addition, loans we obtain may be secured by all of our assets, which will put those assets at risk of forfeiture if we are unable to pay our debts. 40 Dislocations in the credit markets and real estate markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Domestic and international financial markets currently are experiencing significant dislocations which have been brought about in large part by failures in the U.S. banking system. These dislocations have severely impacted the availability of credit and have contributed to rising costs associated with obtaining credit. If debt financing is not available on terms and conditions we find acceptable, we may not be able to obtain financing for investments. If this dislocation in the credit markets persists, our ability to borrow monies to finance investments in real estate assets will be negatively impacted. If we are unable to borrow monies on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we likely will have to reduce the number of real estate investments we can make, and the return on the investments we do make likely will be lower. All of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Our operating results may be negatively affected by potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks. We may provide financing for borrowers that will develop and construct improvements to land at a fixed contract price. We will be subject to risks relating to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups and our borrower’s ability to control land development costs or to build infrastructure in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables deemed necessary by builders. The borrower’s failure to perform may necessitate legal action by us to compel performance. Performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the borrower’s control. Delays in completion of construction could also give builders the right to terminate preconstruction lot purchase contracts. These and other such factors can result in increased costs to the borrower that may make it difficult for the borrower to make payments to us. Furthermore, we must rely upon projections of lot take downs, expenses and estimates of the fair market value of property when evaluating whether to make loans. If our projections are inaccurate, and we are forced to foreclose on a property, our return on our investment could suffer. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and other governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Under limited circumstances, a secured lender, in addition to the owner of real estate, may be liable for clean-up costs or have the obligation to take remedial actions under environmental laws, including, but not limited to, the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability for the costs of investigation or remediation of contaminated properties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. In addition, the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell such property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowing. If we foreclose on a defaulted loan to recover our investment, we may become subject to environmental liabilities associated with that property if we participate in the management of that property or do not divest ourselves of the property at the earliest practicable time on commercially reasonable terms. Environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. It is possible that property on which we foreclose may contain hazardous substances, wastes, contaminants or pollutants that we may be required to remove or remediate in order to clean up the property. If we foreclose on a contaminated property, we may also incur liability to tenants or other users of neighboring properties. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will not incur full recourse liability for the entire cost of removal and cleanup, that the cost of such removal and cleanup will not exceed the value of the property, or that we will recover any of these costs from any other party. It may be difficult or impossible to sell a property following discovery of hazardous substances or wastes on the property. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. 41 Terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war may affect the industry in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and our shareholders’ investments. We cannot assure our shareholders that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly or indirectly impact the value of the property we own or the property underlying our loans. Losses resulting from these types of events are generally uninsurable. Moreover, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets. They could also result in economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions resulting from terrorist activities could negatively impact borrowers’ ability to repay loans we make to them or harm the value of the property underlying our investments, both of which would impair the value of our investments and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We are subject to risks related to the geographic concentration of the properties securing the loans and equity investments we make. Although we may purchase loans and make investments throughout the contiguous United States, the majority of investments are in the Southeastern and Southwestern United States, with a near term concentration of substantially all of our investing and lending (90% or more) in the major Texas submarkets. However, if the residential real estate market or general economic conditions in these geographic areas decline to an extent greater than we forecast, or recover to a lesser extent than we forecast, our and our borrowers’ ability to sell homes, lots and land located in these areas may be impaired, we may experience a greater rate of default on the loans or other investments we make with respect to real estate in these areas, and the value of the homes and parcels in which we invest and that are underlying our investments in these areas could decline. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory requirements, including regulations regarding interest rates, mortgage laws, securities laws and the taxation of REITs or business trusts, which may adversely affect our operations. Federal and state lending laws and regulations generally regulate interest rates and many other aspects of real estate loans and contracts. Violations of those laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the extent to which any law or regulation that may be enacted or enforced in the future may affect our operations. In addition, the costs to comply with these laws and regulations may adversely affect our profitability. Future changes to the laws and regulations affecting us, including changes to mortgage laws and securities laws and changes to the Internal Revenue Code applicable to the taxation of REITs or business trusts, could make it more difficult or expensive for us to comply with such laws or otherwise harm our business. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to maintain our REIT status would adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions. We made an election under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code to be taxed as a REIT, beginning with the taxable year ended December 31, 2010. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements set forth in the Internal Revenue Code and treasury regulations promulgated thereunder and various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. We structure our activities in a manner designed to satisfy all of these requirements. However, if certain of our operations were to be recharacterized by the Internal Revenue Service, such recharacterization could jeopardize our ability to satisfy all of the requirements for qualification as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we may be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to shareholders would no longer qualify for the distributions paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. 42 Qualification as a REIT is subject to the satisfaction of tax requirements and various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. New legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of being a REIT. Our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our shareholders’ returns on their investments. Our investment strategy may cause us to incur penalty taxes, lose our REIT status, or own and sell properties through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which would diminish the return to our shareholders. In light of our investment strategy, it is possible that one or more sales of our properties may be “prohibited transactions” under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. If we are deemed to have engaged in a “prohibited transaction” (i.e., we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), all income that we derive from such sale would be subject to a 100% tax. The Internal Revenue Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax. A principal requirement of the safe harbor is that the REIT must hold the applicable property for not less than two years prior to its sale. Given our investment strategy, it is entirely possible, if not likely, that the sale of one or more of our properties will not fall within the prohibited transaction safe harbor. If we desire to sell a property pursuant to a transaction that does not fall within the safe harbor, we may be able to avoid the 100% penalty tax if we acquired the property through a TRS or acquired the property and transferred it to a TRS for a non-tax business purpose prior to the sale (i.e., for a reason other than the avoidance of taxes). However, there may be circumstances that prevent us from using a TRS in a transaction that does not qualify for the safe harbor. Additionally, even if it is possible to effect a property disposition through a TRS, we may decide to forego the use of a TRS in a transaction that does not meet the safe harbor based on our own internal analysis, the opinion of counsel or the opinion of other tax advisors that the disposition will not be subject to the 100% penalty tax. In cases where a property disposition is not effected through a TRS, the Internal Revenue Service could successfully assert that the disposition constitutes a prohibited transaction, in which event all of the net income from the sale of such property will be payable as a tax and none of the proceeds from such sale will be distributable by us to our shareholders or available for investment by us. If we acquire a property that we anticipate will not fall within the safe harbor from the 100% penalty tax upon disposition, then we may acquire such property through a TRS in order to avoid the possibility that the sale of such property will be a prohibited transaction and subject to the 100% penalty tax. If we already own such a property directly or indirectly through an entity other than a TRS, we may contribute the property to a TRS if there is another, non-tax related business purpose for the contribution of such property to the TRS. Following the transfer of the property to a TRS, the TRS will operate the property and may sell such property and distribute the net proceeds from such sale to us, and we may distribute the net proceeds distributed to us by the TRS to our shareholders. Though a sale of the property by a TRS may eliminate the danger of the application of the 100% penalty tax, the TRS itself would be subject to a tax at the federal level, and potentially at the state and local levels, on the gain realized by it from the sale of the property as well as on the income earned while the property is operated by the TRS. This tax obligation would diminish the amount of the proceeds from the sale of such property that would be distributable to our shareholders. As a result, the amount available for distribution to our shareholders would be substantially less than if the REIT had not operated and sold such property through the TRS and such transaction was not characterized as a prohibited transaction. The maximum federal corporate income tax rate currently is 35%. Federal, state and local corporate income tax rates may be increased in the future, and any such increase would reduce the amount of the net proceeds available for distribution by us to our shareholders from the sale of property through a TRS after the effective date of any increase in such tax rates. 43 If we own too many properties through one or more of our TRSs, then we may lose our status as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we may be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to shareholders would no longer qualify for the distributions paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. As a REIT, the value of the securities we hold in all of our TRSs may not exceed 25% of the value of all of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that the value of our interests in all of our TRSs exceeded 25% of the value of total assets at the end of any calendar quarter, then we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If we determine it to be in our best interests to own a substantial number of our properties through one or more TRSs, then it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service may conclude that the value of our interests in our TRSs exceeds 25% of the value of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter and therefore cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Additionally, as a REIT, no more than 25% of our gross income with respect to any year may be from sources other than real estate. Distributions paid to us from a TRS are considered to be non-real estate income. Therefore, we may fail to qualify as a REIT if distributions from all of our TRSs, when aggregated with all other non-real estate income with respect to any one year, are more than 25% of our gross income with respect to such year. We will use all reasonable efforts to structure our activities in a manner that satisfies the requirements for qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our shareholders’ returns on their investments. Certain fees paid to us may affect our REIT status. Certain fees and income we receive could be characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as non-qualifying income for purposes of satisfying the “income tests” required for REIT qualification. If this fee income were, in fact, treated as non-qualifying, and if the aggregate of such fee income and any other non-qualifying income in any taxable year ever exceeded 5% of our gross revenues for such year, we could lose our REIT status for that taxable year and the four ensuing taxable years. We will use all reasonable efforts to structure our activities in a manner that satisfies the requirements for our qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our shareholders’ returns on their investments. Shareholders may have tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in our common shares of beneficial interest, and they may have to use funds from other sources to pay such tax liability. If shareholders elect to have their distributions reinvested in our common shares of beneficial interest pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested that does not represent a return of capital. As a result, unless a shareholder is a tax-exempt entity, a shareholder may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the shares received. If our operating partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership, its income may be subject to taxation, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We intend to maintain the status of our operating partnership, UDF IV OP, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge the status of the operating partnership as a partnership, it would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that the operating partnership could make to us. This would also result in our losing REIT status, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our own income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to make distributions and the return on our shareholders’ investments. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which the operating partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the operating partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain REIT status. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state taxes on income as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” such income will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the interest on our secured loans or the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our shareholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, shareholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly make secured loans or own our assets. Any federal or state taxes paid by us will reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 44 Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the returns to our investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of the federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in our common shares of beneficial interest. On March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”). The Reconciliation Act will require certain U.S. shareholders who are individuals, estates or trusts to pay a 3.8% Medicare tax on, among other things, dividends on and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of shares, subject to certain exceptions. This additional tax will apply broadly to essentially all dividends and all gains from dispositions of shares, including dividends from REITs and gains from dispositions of REIT shares, such as our common shares of beneficial interest. As enacted, the tax will apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure investors that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a shareholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. Investors are urged to consult with their own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on their investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. Congress passed major federal tax legislation in 2003, with modifications to that legislation in 2005 and an extension of that legislation by the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. One of the changes effected by that legislation generally reduced the maximum tax rate on qualified dividends paid by corporations to individuals to 15% through 2012. On January 3, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, extending such 15% qualified dividend rate for 2013 and subsequent taxable years for those unmarried individuals with income under $400,000 and for married couples with income under $450,000. For those with income above such thresholds, the qualified dividend rate is 20%. REIT distributions, however, generally do not constitute qualified dividends and consequently are not eligible for this reduced maximum tax rate. Therefore, our shareholders will pay federal income tax on our distributions (other than capital gains dividends or distributions which represent a return of capital for tax purposes) at the applicable “ordinary income” rate, the maximum of which is currently 39.6%. However, as a REIT, we generally would not be subject to federal or state corporate income taxes on that portion of our ordinary income or capital gain that we distribute currently to our shareholders, and we thus expect to avoid the “double taxation” to which other companies are typically subject. Although REITs continue to receive substantially better tax treatment than entities taxed as corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a corporation. As a result, our declaration of trust provides our board of trustees with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a corporation, without the vote of our shareholders. Our board of trustees has fiduciary duties to us and our shareholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our shareholders. Equity participation in secured loans may result in taxable income and gains from these properties, which could adversely impact our REIT status. If we participate under a secured loan in any appreciation of the properties securing the secured loan or its cash flow and the Internal Revenue Service characterizes this participation as “equity,” we might have to recognize income, gains and other items from the property. This could affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. Distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as UBTI and tax-exempt investors would be required to pay tax on such income and to file income tax returns. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common shares of beneficial interest nor gain from the sale of shares should generally constitute UBTI to a tax-exempt investor. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule, including: 45 ·under certain circumstances, part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our shares may be treated as UBTI if our shares are predominately held by qualified employee pension trusts, such that we are a “pension-held” REIT (which we do not expect to be the case); ·part of the income and gain recognized by a tax-exempt investor with respect to our shares would constitute UBTI if such investor incurs debt in order to acquire the common shares of beneficial interest; and ·part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common shares of beneficial interest held by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation under Sections 501(c)(7), (9), (17) or (20) of the Internal Revenue Code may be treated as UBTI. Distributions to foreign investors may be treated as ordinary income distributions to the extent that they are made out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. In general, foreign investors will be subject to regular U.S. federal income tax with respect to their investment in our shares if the income derived therefrom is “effectively connected” with the foreign investor’s conduct of a trade or business in the United States. A distribution to a foreign investor that is not attributable to gain realized by us from the sale or exchange of a “U.S. real property interest” within the meaning of the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980, as amended, or FIRPTA, and that we do not designate as a capital gain dividend, will be treated as an ordinary income distribution to the extent that it is made out of current or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes). Generally, any ordinary income distribution will be subject to a U.S. federal income tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of the distribution, unless this tax is reduced by the provisions of an applicable treaty. Foreign investors may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the sale of their shares. A foreign investor disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. entity whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to FIRPTA tax on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of shares in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is “domestically controlled” if less than 50% of the REIT’s shares, by value, have been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. While we intend to qualify as “domestically controlled,” we cannot assure shareholders that we will. If we were to fail to so qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of our shares would be subject to FIRPTA tax, unless the shares were traded on an established securities market and the foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of our outstanding common shares of beneficial interest. Foreign investors may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the payment of a capital gain distribution. A foreign investor also may be subject to income tax under FIRPTA tax upon the payment of any capital gain distribution by us that is attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests. Under FIRPTA, such distributions are taxed as though the foreign investor were engaged in a trade or business and the distributions constituted income that was effectively connected with such trade or business. A REIT is generally required to withhold 35% of all capital gain distributions paid to foreign investors to the extent attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests. We encourage investors to consult their own tax advisor to determine the tax consequences applicable to them if they are a foreign investor. 46 Risks Related to Investments by Tax-Exempt Entities and Benefit Plans Subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) If our shareholders fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our common shares of beneficial interest, they could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. There are special considerations that apply to tax-qualified pension, stock bonus or profit-sharing plans, employee benefit plans described in Section 3(3) of ERISA and other retirement plans or accounts subject to Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code (such as individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) or annuities described in Sections 408 or 408A of the Internal Revenue Code, annuities described in Sections 403(a) or (b) of the Internal Revenue Code, Archer MSAs described in Section 220(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, health savings accounts described in Section 223(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, and Coverdell education savings accounts described in Section 530 of the Internal Revenue Code) that are investing in our shares. If investors are investing the assets of a plan or IRA in our common shares of beneficial interest, they should satisfy yourself that, among other things: ·their investment is consistent with their fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code applicable to their plan or IRA, and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code applicable to their plan or IRA; ·their investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing their plan or IRA (including their plan’s investment policy, if applicable); ·their investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and all other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code that may apply to their plan or IRA; ·their investment will not impair the liquidity needs of the plan or IRA, including liquidity needs to satisfy minimum and other distribution requirements and tax withholding requirements that may be applicable; ·their investment will not produce UBTI for the plan or IRA; ·they will be able to value the assets of the plan or IRA annually or more frequently in accordance with ERISA and Internal Revenue Code requirements and any applicable provisions of the plan or IRA; ·their investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code; and ·our assets will not be treated as “plan assets” of their plan or IRA. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil (and, if willful, criminal) penalties and could subject the responsible fiduciaries to liability and equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the “party-in-interest” or “disqualified person” who engaged in the prohibited transaction may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount involved, and for IRAs, the tax-exempt status of the IRA may be lost. This summary does not include a discussion of any laws, regulations, or statutes that may apply to investors not covered by ERISA, including, for example, plans or arrangements that constitute governmental plans or church plans which are exempt from ERISA and many Internal Revenue Code requirements. For such plans and arrangements, applicable laws (such as state laws) may impose fiduciary responsibility requirements in connection with the investment of assets, and may have prohibitions that operate similarly to the prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, but which may also vary significantly from such prohibitions. For any governmental or church plan, or other plans or arrangements not subject to ERISA, those persons responsible for the investment of the assets of such plans or arrangements should carefully consider the impact of such laws on an investment in our shares. 47 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 