ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. Various factors exist that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we believe the following are some of the important risk factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations: Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, a prolonged continuation in the upward trend of fuel prices, and limitations on our ability to collect LTL fuel surcharges may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with fuel charges from our ICs and purchased power providers in our LTL and TL businesses. The tractors operated by our ICs and purchased power providers require large amounts of diesel fuel, and the availability and price of diesel fuel are subject to political, economic, and market factors that are outside of our control. The weekly per-gallon price of diesel fuel has been on an upward trend since 2009. The weekly per-gallon price of diesel fuel ranged from a low of $2.02 in 2009 to $3.90 in March 2011, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. Our ICs and purchased power providers pass along the cost of diesel fuel to us, and we in turn attempt to pass along some or all of these costs to our customers through fuel surcharge revenue programs. There can be no assurance that our fuel surcharge revenue programs will be effective in the future. Market pressures may limit our ability to assess our fuel surcharges. At the request of our customers, we have at times temporarily capped the fuel surcharges at a fixed percentage pursuant to contractual arrangements that vary by customer. Currently, less than 1% of our customers have contractual arrangements with varying levels of capped fuel surcharges. If fuel surcharge revenue programs, base freight rate increases, or other cost-recovery mechanisms do not offset our exposure to rising fuel costs, our results of operations could be adversely affected. A decrease in levels of capacity in the over-the-road freight sector could have an adverse impact on our business. Based on our research, we believe the over-the-road freight sector has experienced levels of excess capacity. The current operating environment in the over-the-road freight sector resulting from an economic downturn, fluctuating fuel costs, industry-specific regulations such as CSA and hours-of-service rules, and other economic factors are causing a tightening of capacity in the sector generally, and in our carrier network specifically, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business. A significant or prolonged economic downturn, particularly the recent downturn in the over-the-road freight sector, or a substantial downturn in our customers’ business, could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The over-the-road freight sector has historically experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to, among other things, economic recession, downturns in business cycles, increasing costs and taxes, fluctuations in energy prices, price increases by carriers, changes in regulatory standards, license and registration fees, interest rate fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. All of these factors could increase the operating costs of a vehicle and impact capacity levels in the over-the-road freight sector. Carriers may charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses, and our operating income may decrease if we are unable to pass through to our customers the full amount of higher purchased transportation costs. Additionally, economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, their need for our services, or their ability to pay for our services. If the current economic downturn causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and, if we are unable to adequately address factors that may adversely affect our revenue and costs, our business could suffer. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins, or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business. There are many factors that could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability, including the following: • competition with other transportation services companies, some of which have a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, and greater capital resources than we do; • reduction by our competitors of their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of declining growth rates in the economy, which reductions may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our operating margins, or maintain significant growth in our business; • solicitation by shippers of bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs and the resulting depression of freight rates or loss of business to competitors; • development of a technology system similar to ours by a competitor with sufficient financial resources and comparable experience in the transportation services industry; and • establishment by our competitors of cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address shipper needs. If we are unable to expand the number of our sales representatives and brokerage agents, or if a significant number of our existing sales representatives and brokerage agents leave us, our ability to increase our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional sales representatives and brokerage agents. Competition for qualified sales representatives and brokerage agents can be intense, and we may be unable to attract such persons. Any difficulties we experience in expanding the number of our sales representatives and brokerage agents could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our customer base, increase our revenue, and continue our growth. In addition, we must retain our current sales representatives and brokerage agents and properly incentivize them to obtain new customers and maintain existing customer relationships. If a significant number of our sales representatives and brokerage agents leave us, our revenue could be negatively impacted. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current sales representatives and brokerage agents could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency. We may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, and any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our results of operations. We plan to increase our revenue and expand our service offerings in the market regions that we serve through the acquisition of complementary businesses. In the future, suitable acquisition candidates may not be available at purchase prices that are attractive to us. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we will compete with other companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may not have available funds or common stock with a sufficient market price to complete a desired acquisition, or acquisition candidates may not be willing to receive our common stock in exchange for their businesses. If we are unable to secure sufficient funding for potential acquisitions, we may not be able to complete strategic acquisitions that we otherwise find advantageous. Further, if we make any future acquisitions, we could incur additional debt or assume contingent liabilities. Strategic acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings, or cash flows; • assumption of liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates; 15 Table of Contents • problems integrating the purchased operations with our own, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical, or financial problems; • potential compliance issues with regard to acquired companies that did not have adequate internal controls; • diversion of management’s attention or other resources from our existing business; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. Our reliance on ICs to provide transportation services to our customers could limit our expansion. Our transportation services are conducted in part by ICs, who are generally responsible for paying for their own equipment, fuel, and other operating costs. Our ICs are responsible for providing the tractors and trailers they use related to our business. Certain factors such as increases in fuel costs, insurance costs, and the cost of new and used tractors, reduced financing sources available to ICs for the purchase of equipment, or the impact of CSA and hours-of-service rules could create a difficult operating environment for ICs. Turnover and bankruptcy among ICs in the over-the-road freight sector often limits the pool of qualified ICs and increases the competition among carriers for their services. If we are required to increase the amounts paid to ICs in order to obtain their services, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent increased expenses are not offset by higher freight rates. Additionally, our agreements with our ICs are terminable by either party upon short notice and without penalty. Consequently, we regularly need to recruit qualified ICs to replace those who have left our pool. If we are unable to retain our existing ICs or recruit new ICs, our results of operations and ability to expand could be adversely affected. Our executive officers and key personnel are important to our business, and these officers and personnel may not remain with us in the future. We depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be able to retain our management team or attract additional qualified personnel. The loss of a member of senior management would require our remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to fulfilling the duties of the departing executive and to seeking a replacement. The inability to adequately fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our third-party carriers must meet our needs and expectations, and those of our customers, and their inability to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business depends to a large extent on our ability to provide consistent, high quality, technology-enabled transportation and logistics solutions. We generally do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our customers’ freight, and we generally do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. We rely on third parties to provide less-than-truckload, truckload and intermodal brokerage, and domestic and international air services and to report certain information to us, including information relating to delivery status and freight claims. This reliance could cause delays in providing our customers with timely delivery of freight, important service data, and in the financial reporting of certain events, including recognizing revenue and recording claims. If we are unable to secure sufficient transportation services to meet our customer commitments, or if any of the third parties we rely on do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. One or more significant claims, our failure to adequately reserve for such claims, or the cost of maintaining our insurance for such claims, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We use the services of thousands of transportation companies and their drivers in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, these drivers are involved in accidents, and goods carried by these 16 Table of Contents drivers are lost or damaged, and the carriers may not have adequate insurance coverage. Such accidents usually result in equipment damage and, unfortunately, can also result in injuries or death. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are ICs or work for third-party carriers, from time to time claims may be asserted against us for their actions or for our actions in retaining them. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, or may not be covered by insurance at all. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, claims for lost or damaged goods, liability claims, or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of any such claims, could adversely affect our results of operations to the extent claims are not covered by our insurance or such losses exceed our reserves. Significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could also reduce our profitability and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The cost of compliance with, liability for violations of, or modifications to existing or future governmental regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to certain federal, state, and local regulatory requirements. These regulations and requirements are subject to change based on new legislation and regulatory initiatives, which could affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. The DOT and its agencies, such as the FMCSA, and various state and local agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as engaging in motor carrier operations, freight forwarding, and freight brokerage operations, as well as regulating safety. As a motor carrier authorized by the DOT, we must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing, driver qualification, and hours-of-service requirements. There also are regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specifications of equipment, product handling requirements, and hazardous material requirements. In addition, we must comply with certain safety, insurance, and bonding requirements promulgated by the DOT and various state agencies. Compliance with existing, new, or more stringent measures could disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries and our ability to satisfy the needs of our customers. In addition, we may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. The cost of compliance with existing or future measures could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, we could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable regulations. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. From time to time, we arrange for the movement of hazardous materials at the request of our customers. As a result, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the handling, transport, and disposal of hazardous materials. If our customers or carriers are involved in an accident involving hazardous materials, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties, remediation costs, or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, current and future laws and regulations relating to carbon emissions and the effects of global warming can be expected to have a significant impact on the transportation sector generally and the operations and profitability of some of our carriers in particular, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our ICs are deemed by regulators to be employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Tax and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that ICs in the trucking industry are employees rather than ICs. There can be no assurance that these authorities will not successfully assert this position or that tax laws and other laws that currently consider these persons ICs will not change. If our ICs are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal and state tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment, and tort laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings. Our business model relies on the fact that our ICs are ICs and not 17 Table of Contents deemed to be our employees, and exposure to any of the above factors could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by potential future changes in accounting practices. Future changes in accounting standards or practices, and related legal and regulatory interpretations of those changes, may adversely impact public companies in general, the transportation industry, or our operations specifically. New accounting standards or requirements, such as a conversion from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to International Financial Reporting Standards, could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets, and/or liabilities or could be costly to implement. These types of regulations could have a negative impact on our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and/or access to capital. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology systems, demand for our services and our revenue could decrease. Our TMS business relies on our technology systems to track and store externally and internally generated market data, analyze the capabilities of our carrier network, and recommend cost-effective carriers in the appropriate transportation mode. To keep pace with changing technologies and customer demands in the future, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our technology systems in response to these trends. We may be unable to implement the appropriate features and functionality of our technology systems in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenue. Seasonal sales fluctuations and weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The transportation industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations as shipments generally are lower during and after the winter holiday season. The productivity of our carriers historically decreases during the winter season because companies have the tendency to reduce their shipments during that time and inclement weather can impede operations. At the same time, our operating expenses could increase because harsh weather can lead to increased accident frequency rates and increased claims. If we were to experience lower-than-expected revenue during any such period, our expenses may not be offset, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Terrorist attacks, anti-terrorism measures, and war could have broad detrimental effects on our business operations. As a result of the potential for terrorist attacks, federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Such measures may reduce the productivity of our ICs or increase the costs associated with their operations, which we could be forced to bear. For example, security measures imposed at bridges, tunnels, border crossings, and other points on key trucking routes may cause delays and increase the non-driving time of our ICs, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. War, risk of war, or a terrorist attack also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could impact our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. If we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, it could result in inaccurate financial reporting, sanctions, or securities litigation, or could otherwise harm our business. As a public company, are required to comply with the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley regarding internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with Section 404 requires dedicated internal resources and a significant amount of time and effort. We continue to expand our resources, through efforts such as recently increasing our 18 Table of Contents finance and compliance staff by adding a corporate controller and manager of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as increased independent auditor fees as we continue our compliance efforts. We are required to be fully compliant under Section 404 by the end of fiscal 2011, and at that time our management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and we will be required to deliver an attestation report of our auditors on our management’s assessment of our internal controls. Completing documentation of our internal control system and financial processes, remediation of control deficiencies, and management testing of internal controls will require substantial effort by us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the required management assessment by our reporting deadline. Failure to implement these changes in a timely, effective or efficient manner could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results, and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from achieving our growth objectives. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional equity financing may dilute the interests of our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. Our growth and profitability may not continue, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. There can be no assurance that our long-term growth objectives will be achieved or that we will be able to effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Future changes in and expansion of our business, or changes in economic or political conditions, could adversely affect our operating margins. Slower or less profitable growth or losses could adversely affect our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 