Item 1A. Risk Factors. The factors described below represent our principal risks. Other factors may exist that we do not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available or that we are not currently able to anticipate. 21 Risks Related to the Restatement We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or intend to take in the future will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting with respect to future filings with the SEC; accordingly, additional material weaknesses may occur in the future. As a result of our review of issues identified in connection with the Restatement, we have determined that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2013 and for all periods since inception. Specifically, UMTH LD did not maintain (and we did not require them to maintain) contemporaneous, sufficiently detailed time records on a loan by loan basis to enable us to reasonably determine the amount of time allocable to direct loan origination activities and thus the amount of Acquisition and Origination Fees allowable for deferral under ASC 310-20. A detailed description of this material weakness is provided in “Part II – Item 9A – Controls and Procedures.” Due to this material weakness, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 (which also resulted in our disclosure controls and procedures to being ineffective as of December 31, 2013). This material weakness caused an accounting error requiring the Restatement. It is possible that additional control deficiencies may be identified in the future that may represent one or more material weaknesses that, among other things, could cause us to fail to file timely our periodic reports with the SEC; prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial information and forecasts or from avoiding or detecting fraud; or require us to incur additional costs or divert management resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Risks Related to an Investment in UDF IV There is no public trading market for our shares; therefore, it will be difficult for shareholders to sell their shares. If a shareholder is able to sell their shares, the shareholder may have to sell them at a substantial discount from the public offering price. In addition, we do not have a fixed liquidation date, and the shareholder may have to hold their shares indefinitely. There is no public market for our shares, and we cannot guarantee that one will ever develop. It will, therefore, be difficult for shareholders to sell their shares promptly, or at all. In addition, the price received for the sale of any of our common shares of beneficial interest is likely to be less than the proportionate value of our investments. We will seek to list our shares for trading on a national securities exchange only if our independent trustees believe listing would be in the best interest of our shareholders. If our shares are listed, we cannot assure shareholders a public trading market will develop. We cannot assure shareholders that the price they would receive in a sale on a national securities exchange would be representative of the value of the assets we own or that it would equal or exceed the amount they paid for the shares. Furthermore, our declaration of trust does not provide a specific date on which we must liquidate. Therefore, shareholders should purchase the shares only as a long-term investment and they may have to hold their shares indefinitely. The minimum purchase requirements and suitability standards imposed on prospective investors in the Offering also apply to subsequent purchasers of our shares. If shareholders are able to find a buyer for their shares, they may not sell their shares to such buyer unless the buyer meets the suitability standards applicable to him, which may inhibit a shareholder’s ability to sell their shares. Furthermore, we are limited in our ability to buy back shares pursuant to our redemption program, including limits on the price we may pay for shareholders’ shares. Our board of trustees may reject any request for redemption of shares or amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program at any time. Shareholders may not be able to sell their shares in the event of an emergency, and, if shareholders are able to sell their shares, they may have to sell them at a substantial discount from the public offering price. It is also likely that their shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. The prior performance of real estate investment programs sponsored by our Advisor and its affiliates may not be an indication of our future results. We were formed in May 2008, and UMTH GS, our Advisor, was formed in March 2003. Shareholders should not assume that our performance will be similar to the past performance of other real estate investment programs sponsored by our Advisor and its affiliates. To be successful in this market, we must, among other things: ·increase awareness of the United Development Funding name within the investment products market; ·attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified personnel to manage our day-to-day operations; ·respond to competition both for investment opportunities and potential investors in us; and ·build and expand our operations structure to support our business. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in achieving these goals, and our failure to do so could cause shareholders to lose all or a portion of their investment. 22 If we, through our Advisor, are unable to find suitable investments, then we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay distributions. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is dependent upon the performance of our Advisor in the identification of real estate loans and other investments and the determination of any financing arrangements. We have not identified all of the properties to acquire or secured loans to originate or acquire with proceeds from the Offering. Shareholders will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments. Shareholders must rely entirely on the oversight of our board of trustees and the management ability of our Advisor. We cannot be sure that our Advisor will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that our objectives will be achieved. Shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate our investments before they are made. We will seek to invest substantially all of the offering proceeds available for investments, after the payment of fees and expenses, in secured loans made directly by us or indirectly through our affiliates to persons and entities for the acquisition and development of parcels of real property as single-family residential lots, and the construction of model and new single-family homes, including development of mixed-use master planned residential communities. We may also make direct investments in land for development into single-family lots, new and model homes and portfolios of finished lots and homes. We rely entirely on our Advisor with respect to the acquisition of our investments, and shareholders will not be able to evaluate our future investments. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in obtaining additional suitable investments. If we are unable to identify additional properties or loans that satisfy our investment objectives in a timely fashion, our business strategy and operations may be adversely affected. We may suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, particularly as a result of the current economic environment and capital constraints, which could adversely affect the return on shareholders’ investments. We could suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, particularly as a result of the current economic environment, capital constraints and our reliance on our Advisor and referrals by borrowers, developers, commercial lenders, homebuilders and other referral sources. Losses during the housing downturn combined with continuing capital constraints at the heart of the credit crisis have reduced the number of real estate lenders able or willing to finance development, construction and the purchase of homes, thus reducing the number of homebuilders and developers that are able to receive such financing. In the event that homebuilders and developers fail or reduce the number of their development and homebuilding projects, resulting in a reduction of new loan applicants, or the supply of referrals by borrowers, developers, commercial lenders and homebuilders decreases, the availability of investments for us would also decrease. Such decreases in the demand for secured loans could leave us with excess cash. In such instances, we plan to make short-term, interim investments with proceeds available from sales of shares and hold these interim investments, pending investment in suitable loans and real estate properties. Interest returns on these interim investments are usually lower than on secured loans and real estate properties, which may reduce the yield to holders of shares and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, depending on how long these interim investments are held. When we invest in short-term, interim investments using proceeds from the sale of shares, those shareholders will nevertheless participate equally in our distributions of income with holders of shares whose sale proceeds have been invested in secured loans and real estate properties. This will favor, for a time, holders of shares whose purchase monies were invested in interim investments, to the detriment of holders of shares whose purchase monies are invested in normally higher-yielding secured loans and real estate properties. The payment of distributions from sources other than our cash flow from operations reduces the funds available for real estate investments, and a shareholder’s overall return may be reduced. Our organizational documents permit us to make distributions from any source. Because we have funded distributions from financings or the net proceeds from the Offering, we will have less funds available for real estate investments, and a shareholder’s overall return may be reduced. Further, to the extent distributions exceed cash flow from operations, a shareholder’s basis in our common shares of beneficial interest will be reduced and, to the extent distributions exceed a shareholder’s basis, the shareholder may recognize capital gain. We have not established any limit on the amount of proceeds from the Offering that may be used to fund distributions, except that, in accordance with our organizational documents and Maryland law, we may not make distributions that would (1) cause us to be unable to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business; or (2) cause our total assets to be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus senior liquidation preferences, if any. 23 For the year ended December 31, 2013, we paid distributions of approximately $44.6 million ($27.7 million in cash and $16.9 million in our common shares of beneficial interest pursuant to our DRIP), as compared to cash flows provided by operations of approximately $24.5 million and funds from operations (“FFO”) of $29.3 million. From May 28, 2008 (Date of Inception) through December 31, 2013, we paid cumulative distributions of approximately $74.0 million, as compared to cumulative FFO of approximately $49.3 million (see “Part II – Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Funds from Operations and Modified Funds from Operations” below for a discussion of FFO). As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $2.7 million of cash distributions declared that were paid subsequent to period end. The distributions paid during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, along with the amount of distributions reinvested pursuant to our DRIP and the sources of our distributions are reflected in the table below. In connection with the Restatement, cash payments to UMTH LD associated with Acquisition and Origination Fees were reclassified from investing activities to operating activities, thus reducing operating cash available for distributions. The impact of the Restatement on the tables below is more specifically described in Note C of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The sources of distributions in the table below have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the Restatement. Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Distributions paid in cash $27,697,000 $12,476,000 Distributions reinvested 16,888,000 6,974,000 Total distributions $44,585,000 $19,450,000 Source of distributions: Cash from operations $24,512,000 55% $9,765,000 50% Proceeds from the Offering 13,521,000 30% - - Borrowings under credit facilities 6,552,000 15% 9,685,000 50% Total sources $44,585,000 100% $19,450,000 100% The following table reflects the impact of the Restatement on the sources of distributions paid during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. We did not pay any distributions for the year ended December 31, 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Source of distributions: Cash from operations $4,525,000 56% $- - Borrowings under credit facilities 3,556,000 44% 1,886,000 100% Total sources $8,081,000 100% $1,886,000 100% 24 Competition with third parties in financing properties may reduce our profitability and the return on a shareholder’s investment. Real estate investment and finance is a very competitive industry. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, real estate limited partnerships, other real estate investment trusts, institutional investors, homebuilders, developers and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do and may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the proliferation of the Internet as a tool for real estate acquisitions and loan origination has made it very inexpensive for new competitors to participate in the real estate investment and finance industry. Our ability to make or purchase a sufficient number of loans and investments to meet our objectives will depend on the extent to which we can compete successfully against these other entities, including entities that may have greater financial or marketing resources, greater name recognition or larger customer bases than we have. Our competitors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, which may make it more difficult for us to attract customers. Increased competition could result in lower revenues and higher expenses, which would reduce our profitability. Deterioration in the homebuilding industry or economic conditions could decrease demand and pricing for new homes and residential home lots and have additional adverse effects on our operations and financial results. Developers to whom we will make loans and with whom we will enter into subordinate debt positions will use the proceeds of our loans and investments to develop raw real estate into residential home lots. The developers obtain the money to repay our development loans by selling the residential home lots to homebuilders or individuals who will build single-family residences on the lots, or by obtaining replacement financing from other lenders. The developer’s ability to repay our loans is based primarily on the amount of money generated by the developer’s sale of its inventory of single-family residential lots. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in general and local economic conditions, such as: •employment levels and job growth; •demographic trends, including population increases and decreases and household formation; •availability of financing for homebuyers; •interest rates; •affordability of homes; •consumer confidence; •levels of new and existing homes for sale, including foreclosed homes; and •housing demand. These conditions may exist on a national scale or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as existing homes, including homes held for sale by investors and speculators, foreclosed homes, and rental properties, can also reduce the homebuilder’s ability to sell new homes, depress new home prices, and reduce homebuilder margins on the sales of new homes, which likely would reduce the amount and price of the residential homes sold by the homebuilders purchasing lots from developers to which we have loaned money and/or increase the absorption period in which such lots are purchased. Historically, the homebuilding industry uses expectations for future volume growth as the basis for determining the optimum amount of land and lots to own. The U.S. housing market suffered declines in 2006 and further deterioration in 2007, 2008 and 2009, particularly in geographic areas that had experienced rapid growth, steep increases in property values and speculation. We believe that the homebuilding industry significantly slowed its purchases of land and lots over that time as part of its strategy to reduce inventory to better match the reduced rate of production. 25 The majority of our investment activities are in the Southeast and Southwest section of the United States, particularly in Texas. Deterioration of homebuilding conditions or in the broader economic conditions of the markets where we operate could cause the number of homebuyers to decrease, which would increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We believe that the housing market conditions will continue to be challenging and we cannot predict the duration or ultimate severity of these challenges. Our operations could be negatively affected to the extent that any housing industry downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. The reduction in availability of mortgage financing and the volatility and reduction in liquidity in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, and the duration and ultimate severity of the effects are uncertain. We believe that since 2007, the mortgage lending industry has experienced significant instability due to defaults on subprime loans and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans, among other things. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused almost all lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not conforming loans, FHA/VA-eligible loans or jumbo loans (which meet conforming underwriting guidelines other than loan size). Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications and any other limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financings in turn make it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of new homes and for some buyers of existing homes from move-up new home buyers to finance the purchase of the move-up new home buyer’s existing home. These factors have served to reduce the affordability of homes and the pool of qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult to sell to first time and first time move-up buyers which have long made up a substantial part of the affordable housing market. These reductions in demand would increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, and the duration and severity of the effects remain uncertain. We also believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae (Federal National Mortgage Association) and Freddie Mac (Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) (“Government Sponsored Enterprises” or “GSEs”) to the mortgage industry is very important to the housing market. The director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”), James B. Lockhart III, on September 7, 2008 announced his decision to place Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into a conservatorship run by the FHFA. That plan contained three measures: an increase in the line of credit available to the GSEs from the U.S. Treasury, so as to provide liquidity; the right of the U.S. Treasury to purchase equity in the GSEs, so as to provide capital; and a consultative role for the Federal Reserve in a reformed GSE regulatory system. The U.S. Treasury further announced an additional increase in the line of credit for the GSEs, guaranteeing the backing of all losses suffered by these enterprises. The U.S. Treasury’s support of the two GSEs while under conservatorship of the FHFA was intended to promote stability in the secondary mortgage market and lower the cost of funding. The GSEs modestly increased their mortgage-backed securities portfolios through the end of 2009. To address systemic risk, in 2010 their portfolios began to be gradually reduced, largely through natural run off, and will eventually stabilize at a lower, less risky size. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of such financing or on the liquidity provided by such enterprises could adversely affect interest rates and mortgage availability and could cause the number of homebuyers to decrease, which would increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We believe that the homebuilding industry’s strategies in response to the adverse conditions in the industry have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. We believe that since the downturn began, most homebuilders have been focused on generating positive operating cash flow, resizing and reshaping their product for a more price-conscious consumer and adjusting finished new home inventories to meet demand, and did so in many cases by significantly reducing the new home prices and increasing the level of sales incentives. After reaching a peak of approximately 1,283,000 new home sales in 2005, new home sales declined each year, year-over-year, to a low of approximately 306,000 new home sales in 2011 before rising to 368,000 in 2012 and 428,000 in 2013. We believe that the decline in new home sales was largely due to a decrease in consumer confidence, due principally to home price declines, elevated unemployment, and slow wage growth as well as the negative national housing, financial industry, and economic news. A more restrictive mortgage lending environment, unemployment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also impacted new home sales. Many of the factors that affect new home sales are beyond the control of the homebuilding industry. A decrease in the number of new homes sold may increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans and, consequently, may reduce our ability to pay distributions to you. 26 Increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in other costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying new homes and adversely affect our business or our financial results. Demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in housing affordability. Most new home purchasers finance their home purchases through lenders providing mortgage financing. Since 2007, the mortgage lending industry has experienced significant instability. As a result of increased default rates and governmental initiatives to improve capital ratios, many mortgage lenders tightened credit requirements and reduced residential mortgage lending. Fewer loan products, stricter loan qualification standards, and higher down payment requirements have made it more difficult for many potential homebuyers to finance the purchase of homes. Increases in interest rates may make houses more difficult to afford. Lack of availability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for homes. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing products may make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. A reduction in the demand for new homes may reduce the amount and price of the residential home lots sold by the homebuilders and developers to which we loan money and/or increase the absorption period in which such home lots are purchased and, consequently, increase the likelihood of defaults on our loans. Increases in interest rates could increase the risk of default under our development loans. Developers and homebuilders to whom we make loans and with whom we enter into subordinate debt positions will use the proceeds of our loans and investments to develop raw real estate into residential home lots and construct homes. The developers and homebuilders obtain the money to repay our loans by selling the residential home lots to homebuilders or individuals, by building and selling single-family residences or by obtaining replacement financing from other lenders. The developers’ or homebuilders’ ability to repay our loans will be based primarily on the amount of money generated by the developers’ or homebuilders’ sale of their inventory of single-family homes or residential lots. If interest rates increase and/or consumer mortgage credit standards tighten, the demand for single-family residences is likely to decrease. In such an interest rate and/or mortgage climate, developers and homebuilders to whom we have loaned money may be unable to generate sufficient income from the resale of single-family homes or residential lots to repay our loans, which could reduce our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The loans we make as part of our investments will generally be secured by collateral that is already encumbered, so our loans may have a higher risk than conventional real estate loans on residential properties. We plan to originate and purchase loans to affiliated and unaffiliated third parties on land to be developed into residential lots, new and model homes and finished home inventories. Our goal is to obtain a first or subordinate lien on the underlying real property to secure our loans, and we generally will require a pledge of the equity ownership interests in the borrower itself to secure our loans, either as the sole collateral or in addition to our lien on the underlying real property. In some instances where the subject parcel is encumbered by a lien in favor of a third party other than us, we may, at our option, become the senior lender in order to protect the priority of our lien on the parcels. Our loans may also be secured by other assets of the borrower. While we will seek to obtain a guarantee of the borrower and/or its parent companies to further secure the borrower’s obligations to us, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will obtain such a guarantee in all cases. If a default occurs under one or more of our loans, payments to us could be reduced or postponed. Further, in the event of a default, we may be left with a security or ownership interest in finished homes or lots or unfinished homes or an undeveloped or partially developed parcel of real estate, which may have less value than a completed home or developed parcel. The guarantee of the borrower and/or its parent companies and other pledged assets, if any, may be insufficient to compensate us for any difference in the amounts due to us under a loan and the value of our interest in the subject parcel. 27 Decreases in the value of the property underlying our loans may decrease the value of our assets. In most cases, we obtain a first or subordinate lien on the underlying real property to secure our loans (mortgage loans), and we also may require a pledge of all of the equity ownership interests in the borrower entity itself as additional security for our loans. In instances where we do not have a lien on the underlying real property, we obtain a pledge of all of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity itself to secure such loans and/or a pledge of the equity ownership interests of the borrower entity or other parent entity that owns the borrower entity (so-called “mezzanine loans”). We also may require a pledge of additional assets of the borrower, liens against additional parcels of undeveloped and developed real property and/or the personal guarantees of principals or guarantees of operating entities in connection with our secured loans. To the extent that the value of the property that serves as security for these loans or investments is lower than we expect, the value of our assets, and consequently our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, will be adversely affected. Our investments and participation agreements with borrowers will expose us to various risks and will not guarantee that we will receive any amount under such agreements. The investments and participation agreements that we enter with borrowers will be separate from the loans that we will make to the borrowers. Participation agreements will be structured either as contracts entitling us to participate in the borrower’s profits or as joint venture investments organized as partnerships or limited liability companies in which we will have an equity interest. The participation agreements may represent an equity joint venture interest that will, and our investment will, expose us to all of the risks inherent in real estate investments generally and with real estate investments made with a co-venturer. These risks include, among others, the fact that there is no guaranteed return on the equity participations. In the event our loan is paid off prior to sale of the parcel, we would hold an equity participation that would be junior to any liens or claims against the parcel. Our joint venture participations could subject us to liabilities arising out of environmental claims or claims for injuries, tax levies or other charges against the owner of the parcel as well as from the risk of bankruptcy of our co-venturer. We will be subject to the general market risks associated with real estate construction and development. Our financial performance will depend on the successful construction and/or development and sale of the homes and real estate parcels that we own, that serve as security for the loans we make to homebuilders and developers or that will be the subject of our participation agreements with borrowers. As a result, we will be subject to the general market risks of real estate construction and development, including weather conditions, the price and availability of materials used in the construction of the homes and development of the lots, environmental liabilities and zoning laws and numerous other factors that may materially and adversely affect the success of the projects. In the event the market softens, the homebuilder or developer may require additional funding and such funding may not be available. In addition, if the market softens, the amount of capital required to be advanced and the required marketing time for such home or development may both increase, and the homebuilder’s or developer’s incentive to complete a particular home or real estate development may decrease. Such circumstances may reduce our profitability and the returns on our shareholders’ investments. If we lose or are unable to obtain key personnel or one or more of our key personnel decides to compete with us, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions and the value of our shareholders’ investments. Our success depends to a significant degree on the diligence, experience and skill of certain executive officers and other key personnel of us, our Advisor and its affiliates, including Todd F. Etter, Hollis M. Greenlaw, Michael K. Wilson, Ben L. Wissink, Melissa H. Youngblood, Cara D. Obert, David A. Hanson and Stacey H. Dwyer, for the selection, acquisition, structuring and monitoring of our lending and investment activities. With the exception of Ms. Dwyer, these individuals are not bound by employment agreements with us; however, certain other key personnel are bound by employment agreements with UMT Holdings, the parent company of our Advisor and our asset manager. If any of our key personnel were to cease their affiliation with us, our Advisor or its affiliates, our operating results could suffer. Affiliates of our Advisor maintain key person life insurance with respect to Hollis M. Greenlaw. We have not obtained life insurance policies on any other key personnel involved in our operations and, therefore, have no insulation against extraneous events that may adversely affect their ability to implement our investment strategies. We also believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our Advisor’s and its affiliates’ ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of any key person could harm our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of key personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategy could be delayed or hindered. 28 In addition, many of the officers and key personnel of the Trust, our Advisor and its affiliates are bound by non-competition agreements, and there are remedies under certain state laws if such officers or key personnel conduct activities that compete with us either during or after their employment. However, our ability to prohibit former employees from competing with us, our Advisor or its affiliates may be limited in many respects, and we cannot assure our shareholders that one or more of those persons may not choose to compete with us, or that we could limit their ability to do so or recover anything in such an event. Competition by these officers or key employees may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to recover claims against our independent trustees are limited, which could reduce our and our shareholders’ recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a trustee has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Subject to certain exceptions, our declaration of trust provides that no independent trustee will be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages and that we will generally indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our independent trustees than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our and our shareholders’ recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent trustees (as well as by our other trustees, officers, employees of our Advisor and agents) in some cases, which would decrease the cash otherwise available for distributions to our shareholders. Other real estate investment programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates have experienced adverse business developments, and our business may be affected by similar conditions. The prior programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates have occasionally been adversely affected by the limited supply of suitable loans available for purchase. When sufficient numbers of suitable loans historically were not available for purchase, UMT experienced excess uninvested cash, resulting in lower earnings per share in 1998 and 1999. Increased loan default rates resulted in decreased net income for UMT for the years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. As a result, UMT made distributions in excess of earnings for the period from September 30, 1997 through December 31, 2005 and in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. Furthermore, decreases in the available amount and use of leverage, along with increases in the amount of equity in relation to debt, result in lower returns on equity, as was experienced by UDF I and UDF II for the years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. The continuing operations of prior programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates can be expected in the future to experience decreases in net income when economic conditions decline, specifically the availability of suitable loans, loan default increases and decreases in the amount and availability of leverage. Some of these programs may be unable to optimize their returns to investors because of requirements to liquidate when adverse economic conditions cause real estate prices to be relatively depressed. In addition, prior programs may be required to assume or pay off senior debt in order to protect their investments. Our business will be affected by similar conditions, and no assurance can be made that our program or other programs sponsored by our advisor and its affiliates will ultimately be successful in meeting their investment objectives. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We will be subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationships with our Advisor and its affiliates, including the material conflicts discussed below. When conflicts arise between us and our Advisor and its affiliates, they may not be resolved in our favor, which could cause our operating results to suffer. 29 Our Advisor and its affiliates will have equity interests and/or profit participations in developments we finance and may have a greater incentive to make loans with respect to such developments and/or provide credit enhancements to preserve and/or enhance their economic interest in such development. We expect to make loans and/or provide credit enhancement transactions to affiliates of our Advisor or asset manager. In connection with making such loans or providing such credit enhancements, we will obtain an appraisal concerning the underlying property from an independent expert who is in the business of rendering opinions regarding the value of assets of the type held by us and who is qualified to perform such work. In addition, a majority of the trustees (including a majority of the independent trustees) who are not otherwise interested in the transaction must approve all transactions with our Advisor or its affiliates as being fair and reasonable to us and on terms and conditions not less favorable to us than those available from unaffiliated third parties. We also will obtain a mortgagee’s or owner’s title insurance policy or a commitment as to the priority of the secured loan as part of our underwriting process. If an affiliate of our Advisor has an equity interest or participation interest in a development that requires a loan or credit enhancement, our Advisor may have a greater incentive to make a loan with respect to such development to preserve and/or enhance its economic interest in such development. As of December 31, 2013, our 18 loans to related parties have an outstanding balance of approximately $63.9 million. Our Advisor is an affiliate of the general partners of UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF and may not always be able to allocate investment opportunities on a pro rata basis among us, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF. Our Advisor is an affiliate of the general partners of UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF, all of which engage in the same businesses in which we engage. Our Advisor, asset manager and the investment committee will seek to equitably apportion among us, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF all investment opportunities of which it becomes aware. We have entered into a participation agreement with UDF I, UDF II, UDF III, UDF LOF and UMTH LD pursuant to which we will invest in the same loans and transactions as UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF on a pro rata basis based on the amount of capital held by each entity that is available for investment in accordance with each fund’s risk profile and capital available for investment. However, circumstances may arise, due to availability of capital or other reasons, when it is not possible for us to make an investment on such pro rata basis. Our Advisor may determine not to invest in otherwise suitable investments in which UDF I, UDF II, UDF III or UDF LOF will participate in order for us to avoid unrelated business taxable income, or “UBTI,” which is generally defined as income derived from any unrelated trade or business carried on by a tax-exempt entity or by a partnership of which it is a member, and which is generally subject to taxation. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to invest in all investment opportunities of which our Advisor becomes aware that may be suitable for us on a pro rata basis or otherwise. Our founders may form other companies that will engage in the same businesses as we will, and we may not always be able to participate in investment opportunities on a pro rata basis between us and such other companies. Our Advisor and its affiliates may engage in additional real estate-related activities in the future, including the activities in which we engage, and may form new entities to engage in these activities. If new companies are formed for the purpose of engaging in the businesses in which we engage, including United Development Funding Income Fund V (“UDF V”), a Maryland real estate investment trust that is seeking to register its initial public offering of shares pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-11 that is currently in registration with the SEC, our founders intend to allocate investment opportunities among us, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III, UDF LOF and the new entities equitably. However, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to participate in all or any investment opportunities in which such other companies participate, on an equitable basis or otherwise. Certain of the principals of our Advisor will face conflicts of interest relating to the extension and purchase of loans, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Certain of the principals of our Advisor, including Mr. Etter, Mr. Greenlaw, Michael K. Wilson, Ben L. Wissink, Melissa H. Youngblood and Cara D. Obert, are also principals, directors, officers and equity holders of other entities, including UDF I, UDF II, UDF III, UDF LOF, UMT Holdings and UMT Services, and they may also in the future hold positions with, and interests in, other entities engaged in real estate activities, including UDF V. These multiple responsibilities may create conflicts of interest for these individuals if they are presented with opportunities that may benefit us and their other affiliates. These individuals may be incentivized to allocate opportunities to other entities rather than to us if they are more highly compensated based on investments made by other entities. In determining which opportunities to allocate to us and to their other affiliates, these individuals will consider the investment strategy and guidelines of each entity. Because we cannot predict the precise circumstances under which future potential conflicts may arise, we intend to address potential conflicts on a case- by-case basis. There is a risk that our Advisor will choose an investment for us that provides lower returns to us than a loan made by one of our affiliates. Investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which any conflicts of interest involving our Advisor and its affiliates are resolved before making their investment. 30 Our Advisor and its affiliates, including some of our trustees and all of our executive officers, with the exception of Ms. Dwyer, will face conflicts of interest caused by their compensation arrangements with us, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interests of our shareholders. Our Advisor and its affiliates are entitled to substantial fees from us in connection with the Offering and our business operations. These fees could influence our Advisor’s advice to us as well as the judgment of affiliates of our Advisor performing services for us. Among other matters, these compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to: ·the continuation, renewal or enforcement of our agreements with our Advisor and its affiliates, including the advisory agreement; ·borrowings, which would increase the fees payable to our Advisor; ·whether and when we seek to list our common shares of beneficial interest on a national securities exchange, which listing could entitle our Advisor to the payment of fees; and ·whether and when we seek to sell the company or its assets, which sale could entitle our Advisor or one of its affiliates to the payment of fees. We will face risks relating to joint ventures with our affiliates and third parties that are not present with other methods of investing in properties and secured loans. We may enter into joint ventures with certain of our affiliates, as well as with third parties, for the funding of loans or the acquisition of properties. We may also purchase loan participation interests or loans through joint ventures, partnerships or other co-ownership arrangements with our affiliates, the sellers of the loans, affiliates of the sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in secured loans, including, for example: ·that such affiliate, co-venturer or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, which may cause us to disagree with our affiliate, co-venturer or partner as to the best course of action with respect to the investment and which disagreement may not be resolved to our satisfaction; ·that such affiliate, co-venturer or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, which may cause us not to realize the return anticipated from our investment; or ·that it may be difficult for us to sell our interest in any such participation, co-venture or partnership. Moreover, in the event we determine to foreclose on the collateral underlying a non-performing investment, we may be required to obtain the cooperation of our affiliate, co-venturer or partner to do so. We anticipate that we will participate with our affiliates in certain development projects where we and our affiliates make loans to the borrower, in which case we expect to enter into an inter-creditor agreement that will define our rights and priority with respect to the underlying collateral. Our inability to foreclose on a property acting alone may cause significant delay in the foreclosure process, in which time the value of the property may decline. As of December 31, 2013, we have not entered into any joint ventures. As of December 31, 2013, we are participating in 10 loans originated by affiliates, with an outstanding balance of approximately $32.9 million. Our Advisor will face additional conflicts of interest relating to loan participations with affiliated entities and may make decisions that disproportionately benefit one or more of our affiliated entities instead of us. Our Advisor also serves as the advisor for UMT and is an affiliate of the general partners of UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF, all of which engage in the same businesses in which we engage. Because our Advisor or its affiliates will have advisory and management arrangements with these other United Development Funding programs, it is likely that they will encounter opportunities to invest in or acquire interests in secured loans, participations and/or properties to the benefit of one of the United Development Funding programs, but not others. Our Advisor or its affiliates may make decisions to finance certain properties, which decisions might disproportionately benefit a United Development Funding program other than us. In such event, our results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. 31 Because our Advisor and its affiliates are affiliated with UMT, UDF I, UDF II, UDF III and UDF LOF, agreements and transactions among the parties with respect to any loan participation among two or more of such parties will not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers. Under these loan participation arrangements, we may not have a first priority position with respect to the underlying collateral. In the event that a co-venturer has a right of first refusal to buy out the other co-venturer, it may be unable to finance such buy-out at that time. In addition, to the extent that our co-venturer is an affiliate of our Advisor, certain conflicts of interest will exist. As of December 31, 2013, we are participating in 10 loans originated by affiliates, with an outstanding balance of approximately $32.9 million. Our Advisor’s officers and key personnel will face conflicts of interest relating to the allocation of their time and other resources among the various entities that they serve or have interests in, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Certain of the officers and key personnel of our Advisor will face competing demands relating to their time and resources because they are also affiliated with entities with investment programs similar to ours, and they may have other business interests as well, including business interests that currently exist and business interests they develop in the future. Because these persons have competing interests for their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. As a result, they may devote less time and resources to our business than is necessary. If this occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. There is no separate counsel for certain of our affiliates and us, which could result in conflicts of interest. Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP acts as legal counsel to us, our Advisor and certain of its affiliates. If the interests of the various parties become adverse, under the Code of Professional Responsibility of the legal profession, Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP may be precluded from representing any one or all of such parties. If any situation arises in which our interests appear to be in conflict with those of our Advisor or its affiliates, additional counsel may be retained by one or more of the parties to assure that their interests are adequately protected. Risks Related to Our Business in General A limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover. Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our trustees to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of trustees, no person may own more than 9.8% of the value of our outstanding shares or more than 9.8% of the number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide shareholders with the opportunity to receive a premium price for their shares. Our declaration of trust permits our board of trustees to issue securities with terms that may subordinate the rights of the holders of our current common shares of beneficial interest or discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our declaration of trust permits our board of trustees to issue up to 350,000,000 common shares of beneficial interest and up to 50,000,000 preferred shares of beneficial interest. Our board of trustees, without any action by our shareholders, may (1) amend our declaration of trust from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series we have authority to issue or (2) classify or reclassify any unissued shares of beneficial interest from time to time in one or more classes or series of shares and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption of any such shares. Thus, our board of trustees could authorize the issuance of such shares with terms and conditions that could subordinate the rights of the holders of our current common shares of beneficial interest or have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common shares of beneficial interest. 32 Maryland law prohibits certain business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us to be acquired. Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested shareholder is defined as: ·any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of the company; or ·an affiliate or associate of the company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the company. A person is not an interested shareholder under the statute if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the shareholder otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of trustees may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board of trustees. After the expiration of the five-year period described above, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested shareholder must generally be recommended by the board of trustees of the company and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: ·80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the then outstanding voting shares of the company; and ·two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of the company other than voting shares held by the interested shareholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interest shareholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the holder of the company’s common shares of beneficial interest receives a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its shares. Maryland law also permits various exemptions from these provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of trustees before the time that the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. Our board of trustees has exempted any business combination with UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS and, provided that such business combination is first approved by the board of trustees, any business combination with any other person. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS or any board-approved business combination with any other person. As a result, UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our shareholders, without compliance with the super-majority vote requirements and the other provisions of the business combination statute. Should the board of trustees opt back in to the business combination statute or fail to first approve a business combination with any person other than UMTH GS or any affiliate of UMTH GS, the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. 33 Maryland law also limits the ability of a third party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing trustees. Under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, “control shares” of a Maryland company acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the company’s disinterested shareholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Common shares of beneficial interest owned by interested shareholders, that is, by the acquirer, by officers or by employees who are trustees of the company, are excluded from the vote on whether to accord voting rights to the control shares. “Control shares” are voting shares that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means, subject to certain exceptions, the acquisition of issued and outstanding control shares. The control share acquisition statute does not apply (1) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if the company is a party to the transaction or (2) to acquisitions approved or exempted by a company’s declaration of trust or bylaws. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of beneficial interest. We can offer no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. This statute could have the effect of discouraging offers from third parties to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer by anyone other than our affiliates or any of their affiliates. Our declaration of trust includes a provision that may discourage a person from launching a tender offer for our shares. Our declaration of trust provides that any tender offer made by any person, including any “mini-tender” offer, must comply with most provisions of Regulation 14D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The offeror must provide our company notice of such tender offer at least ten business days before initiating the tender offer. If the offeror does not comply with these requirements, our company will have the right to redeem that offeror’s shares and any shares acquired in such tender offer. In addition, the non-complying offeror will be responsible for all of our company’s expenses in connection with that offeror’s noncompliance. This provision of our declaration of trust may discourage a person from initiating a tender offer for our shares and prevent our shareholders from receiving a premium price for their shares in such a transaction. Shareholders’ investment returns will be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act imposing, among other things: ·limitations on capital structure; ·restrictions on specified investments; ·prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and ·compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. We conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We intend to qualify for an exclusion from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which generally means that at least 55% of our portfolio must comprise qualifying real estate assets and at least another 25% of our portfolio must comprise additional qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. Although we monitor our portfolio periodically and prior to each acquisition, we may not be able to maintain this exclusion from registration. How we determine to classify our assets for purposes of the Investment Company Act will be based in large measure upon no-action positions taken by the SEC in the past. We believe that we have conducted our operations to comply with these no-action positions. However, these no-action positions were issued in accordance with factual situations that may be substantially different from the factual situations we may face, and a number of these no-action positions were issued more than ten years ago. No assurance can be given that the SEC will concur with our classification of our assets. Future revisions to the Investment Company Act or further guidance from the SEC may cause us to lose our exclusion from registration or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our investment strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exclusion, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire assets that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. Further, we may not be able to invest in a sufficient number of qualifying real estate assets and/or real estate-related assets to comply with the exclusion from registration. 34 We may determine to operate through our operating partnership or other wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiaries that may be formed in the future. If so, we intend to operate in such a manner that we would not come within the definition of an investment company under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act, and we intend to operate our operating partnership and any other subsidiary or subsidiaries in a manner that would exclude such entities from registration under the Investment Company Act pursuant to the exclusions provided by Sections 3(c)(1), 3(c)(5)(C) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. As part of our Advisor’s obligations under the advisory agreement, our Advisor will agree to refrain from taking any action which, in its sole judgment made in good faith, would subject us to regulation under the Investment Company Act. Failure to maintain an exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act would require us to significantly restructure our business plan. For example, because affiliate transactions are severely limited under the Investment Company Act, we would not be able to enter into transactions with any of our affiliates if we are required to register as an investment company, and we may be required to terminate our advisory agreement and any other agreements with affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and pay distributions. Shareholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations. Our board of trustees determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of trustees may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the shareholders. Our declaration of trust sets forth the shareholder voting rights required to be set forth therein under the Statement of Policy Regarding Real Estate Investment Trusts published by the North American Securities Administrators Association. Under our declaration of trust and the Maryland REIT Law, our shareholders currently have a right to vote only on the following matters: ·the election or removal of trustees; ·the amendment of our declaration of trust, except that our board of trustees may amend our declaration of trust without shareholder approval to: §change our name; §increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares; §increase or decrease the number of the shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue; §effect certain reverse stock splits; or §qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code or the Maryland REIT Law; ·our termination; and ·certain mergers, consolidations and sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets. All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of trustees. Our board of trustees may change the methods of implementing our investment policies and objectives without shareholder approval, which could alter the nature of a shareholder’s investment. Our declaration of trust requires that our independent trustees review our investment policies at least annually to determine that the policies we are following are in the best interest of the shareholders. These policies may change over time. The methods of implementing our investment policies may also vary, as new investment techniques are developed. The methods of implementing our investment policies, objectives and procedures may be altered by our board of trustees without the approval of our shareholders. As a result, the nature of our shareholders’ investment could change without their consent. Shareholders are limited in their ability to sell their shares pursuant to our redemption program. Any investor requesting repurchase of their shares pursuant to our share redemption program will be required to certify to us that such investor acquired the shares by either (1) a purchase directly from us or (2) a transfer from the original subscriber by way of a bona fide gift not for value to, or for the benefit of, a member of the subscriber’s immediate or extended family or through a transfer to a custodian, trustee or other fiduciary for the account of the subscriber or his/her immediate or extended family in connection with an estate planning transaction, including by bequest or inheritance upon death or by operation of law. Shareholders should also be fully aware that our share redemption program contains certain restrictions and limitations. Shares will be redeemed on a monthly basis, as follows: first, pro rata as to redemptions upon the death of a shareholder; next, pro rata among shareholders willing to have their shares redeemed at the then-current net asset value, as determined by our board of trustees in its sole discretion; next, pro rata as to shareholders who demonstrate to our satisfaction another involuntary exigent circumstance, such as bankruptcy; and finally, pro rata as to other redemption requests, with a priority given to the earliest redemption requests received. We will not redeem in excess of 5% of the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the trailing twelve-month period prior to the redemption date. In addition, the cash available for redemption generally will be limited to 1% of our operating cash flow from the previous fiscal year plus any proceeds from our DRIP. Further, our board of trustees reserves the right to reject any request for redemption or to terminate, suspend, or amend the share redemption program at any time. Therefore, in making a decision to purchase shares, investors should not assume that they will be able to sell any of their shares back to us pursuant to our redemption program. 35 If shareholders are able to resell their shares to us pursuant to our redemption program, they will likely receive substantially less than the fair market value for their shares. The purchase price for shares we repurchase under our redemption program, for the period beginning after a shareholder has held their shares for a period of one year, will be (1) 92% of the purchase price for any shares held less than two years, (2) 94% of the purchase price of any shares held for at least two years but less than three years, (3) 96% of the purchase price of any shares held at least three years but less than four years, (4) 98% of the purchase price of any shares held at least four years but less than five years and (5) for any shares held at least five years, the lesser of the purchase price actually paid or the fair market value of the shares as determined by our annual valuations. However, at any time we are engaged in an offering of our shares, the per share price for shares purchased under our redemption program will always be equal to or less than the applicable per share offering price. The price we will pay for redeemed shares will be offset by any net proceeds from capital transactions previously distributed to the redeeming shareholder as a return of capital. Accordingly, shareholders would likely receive less by selling their shares back to us than they would receive if our investments were sold for their estimated values and such proceeds were distributed in our liquidation. A shareholder’s interest in us may be diluted if the price we pay in respect of shares redeemed under our share redemption program exceeds the net asset value of our shares. The prices we may pay for shares redeemed under our share redemption program may exceed the net asset value of such shares at the time of redemption. If this were to be the case, investors who do not elect or are unable to have some or all of their shares redeemed under our share redemption program would suffer dilution in the value of their shares as a result of redemptions. We will create a reserve from our net interest income and net proceeds from capital transactions to recover some of the organization and offering expenses, including selling commissions and dealer manager fees we will incur in connection with the offering of our shares in order to cause the net asset value of the company to be on parity with or greater than the amount we may pay for shares under our share redemption program. However, it is likely that non-redeeming shareholders will experience dilution as a result of redemptions which occur at a time when the net asset value has decreased, regardless of the reserve. We will have broad discretion in how we use the net proceeds of the Offering. We will have broad discretion in how to use the net proceeds of the Offering, and shareholders will be relying on our judgment regarding the application of the proceeds of the Offering. Shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which the net proceeds of the Offering are invested or the economic merits of particular assets to be acquired or loans to be made. Our Advisor’s subordinated incentive fee may create an incentive for our Advisor to make speculative investments. Because the incentive fee is subordinate to the payment of cumulative distributions to our shareholders, our Advisor’s interest is not wholly aligned with those of our shareholders. The subordinated nature of the incentive fee means that our Advisor will not receive such fee if our investments result only in minimal returns. Our Advisor’s subordinated incentive fee may create an incentive for our Advisor to advise us to make investments that have a higher potential return but are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of this incentive fee. Payment of fees to our Advisor and its affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution. Our Advisor and its affiliates will perform services for us in connection with the selection and acquisition of our investments and the administration of our investments. They will be paid substantial fees for these services, which will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to shareholders. 36 We are under no obligation to continue to pay cash distributions. Distributions have been, and may continue to be, paid from capital and there can be no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash distributions, or that distributions will increase over time. There are many factors, including factors beyond our control that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to shareholders. Distributions are based principally on cash available from our loans, real estate securities, property acquisitions and other investments. The amount of cash available for distributions will be affected by our ability to invest in real estate properties, secured loans, mezzanine loans or participations in loans as offering proceeds become available, the yields on the secured loans in which we invest, amounts set aside to create a retained earnings reserve and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. We are under no obligation to pay cash distributions and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to pay or maintain distributions or that distributions will increase over time. Nor can we give any assurance that income from the properties we purchase or the loans we make or acquire, or in which we participate, will increase or that future investments will increase our cash available for distributions to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of trustees in establishing the distribution rate to shareholders. In addition, our board of trustees, in its discretion, may reinvest or retain for working capital any portion of our cash on hand. We cannot assure our shareholders that sufficient cash will be available to continue to pay distributions to them. Adverse market and economic conditions will negatively affect our returns and profitability. Our results are sensitive to changes in market and economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rate levels, supply of new and existing homes, supply of finished lots and the costs associated with constructing new homes and developing land. We may be affected by market and economic challenges, including the following, any of which may result from a continued or exacerbated general economic slowdown experienced by the nation as a whole or by the local economies where properties subject to our secured loans may be located: ·poor economic conditions may result in a slowing of new home sales and corresponding lot purchases by builders resulting in defaults by borrowers under our secured loans; ·job transfers and layoffs may cause new home sales to decrease; ·lack of liquidity in the secondary mortgage market; ·tighter credit standards for home buyers; ·general unavailability of commercial credit; and ·illiquidity of financial institutions. The length and severity of any economic downturn cannot be predicted. Our operations could be negatively affected to the extent that an economic downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions and make additional investments. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. Periodically, we may have cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits over any federally insured amount. The loss of our deposits could reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of our shareholders’ investments. Risks Related to the Secured Loan Lending Business Defaults on our secured loans will reduce our income and shareholders’ distributions. Because a significant number of our assets will be secured loans, failure of a borrower to pay interest or repay a loan will have adverse consequences on our income. For example, ·failure by a borrower to repay loans or interest on loans will reduce our income and, consequently, distributions to our shareholders; 37 ·we may not be able to resolve the default prior to foreclosure of the property securing the loan; ·we may be required to expend substantial funds for an extended period to complete or develop foreclosed properties; ·the subsequent income and sale proceeds we receive from the foreclosed properties may be less than competing investments; and ·the proceeds from sales of foreclosed properties may be less than our investment in the properties. Investments in land development loans present additional risks compared to loans secured by operating properties. We may invest up to 10% of the gross offering proceeds in loans to purchase unimproved real property, and as of December 31, 2013, we have invested 0% of the gross offering proceeds in such loans. For purposes of this limitation, “unimproved real property” is defined as real property which has the following three characteristics: (a) an equity interest in real property which was not acquired for the purpose of producing rental or other income; (b) has no development or construction in process on such land; and (c) no development or construction on such land is planned in good faith to commence within one year. Land development mortgage loans may be riskier than loans secured by improved properties, because: ·until disposition, the property does not generate separate income for the borrower to make loan payments; ·the completion of planned development may require additional development financing by the borrower, which may not be available; ·depending on the velocity or amount of lot sales to homebuilders, demand for lots may decrease, causing the price of the lots to decrease; ·depending on the velocity or amount of lot sales to developers or homebuilders, demand for land may decrease, causing the price of the land to decrease; ·there is no assurance that we will be able to sell unimproved land promptly if we are forced to foreclose upon it; and ·lot sale contracts are generally not “specific performance” contracts, and the borrower may have no recourse if a homebuilder elects not to purchase lots. Investments in second, mezzanine and wraparound mortgage loans present additional risks compared to loans secured by first deeds of trust. We expect that we will be the junior lender with respect to some of our loans. We may invest in (a) second mortgage loans (some of which are also secured by pledges), which investments represent approximately 28% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2013; (b) co-investment loans (which are secured by pledges and collateral-sharing arrangements permitting us to share in the proceeds of second liens held by affiliates), which investments represent 0% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2013; (c) mezzanine loans (which are secured by pledges), which investments represent approximately 2% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2013; and (d) wraparound mortgage loans, which investments represent 0% of the gross offering proceeds as of December 31, 2013. A wraparound, or all-inclusive, mortgage loan is a loan in which the lender combines the remainder of an old loan with a new loan at an interest rate that blends the rate charged on the old loan with the current market rate. In a second mortgage loan and in a mezzanine loan, our rights as a lender, including our rights to receive payment on foreclosure, will be subject to the rights of the prior mortgage lender. In a wraparound mortgage loan, our rights will be similarly subject to the rights of any prior mortgage lender, but the aggregate indebtedness evidenced by our loan documentation will be the prior mortgage loans in addition to the new funds we invest. Under a wraparound mortgage loan, we would receive all payments from the borrower and forward to any senior lender its portion of the payments we receive. Because all of these types of loans are subject to the prior mortgage lender’s right to payment on foreclosure, we incur a greater risk when we invest in each of these types of loans. 38 Credit enhancements provided by us are subject to specific risks relating to the particular borrower and are subject to the general risks of investing in residential real estate. We may provide credit enhancements to real estate developers, homebuilders, land bankers and other real estate investors (such credit enhancements may take the form of a loan guarantee, the pledge of assets, a letter of credit or an inter-creditor agreement provided by us to a third-party lender for the benefit of a borrower and are intended to enhance the creditworthiness of the borrower, thereby affording the borrower credit at terms it would otherwise be unable to obtain). Our provision of credit enhancements will involve special risks relating to the particular borrower under the third-party loan, including the financial condition and business outlook of the borrower. In addition, the borrowers who receive our credit enhancements are subject to the inherent risks associated with residential real estate. Many of our loans will require balloon payments, which are riskier than loans with fully amortized payments. We anticipate that substantially all of our loans will have balloon payments or reductions to principal tied to net cash from the sale of developed lots and the release formula created by the senior lender (the conditions under which principal is repaid to the senior lender, if any). As of December 31, 2013, 100% of our loans have balloon payments or reductions to principal tied to net cash. A balloon payment is a large principal balance that is payable after a period of time during which the borrower has repaid none or only a small portion of the principal balance. Loans with balloon payments are riskier than loans with even payments of principal over an extended time period, such as 15 or 30 years, because the borrower’s repayment often depends on its ability to refinance the loan or sell the developed lots profitably when the loan comes due. There are no specific criteria used in evaluating the credit quality of borrowers for mortgage loans requiring balloon payments. Furthermore, a substantial period of time may elapse between the review of the financial statements of the borrower and the date when the balloon payment is due. As a result, there is no assurance that a borrower will have sufficient resources to make a balloon payment when due. The interest-only loans we make or acquire may be subject to greater risk of default and there may not be sufficient funds or assets remaining to satisfy our loans, which may result in losses to us. We will make and acquire interest-only loans or loans requiring reductions to accrued interest tied to net cash, and as of December 31, 2013, 100% of the loans we have made and acquired are interest-only loans or loans requiring reductions to accrued interest tied to net cash. Interest-only loans typically cost the borrower less in monthly loan payments than fully-amortizing loans which require a payment on principal as well as interest. This lower cost may enable a borrower to acquire a more expensive property than if the borrower was entering into a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. Borrowers utilizing interest-only loans are dependent on the appreciation of the value of the underlying property, and the sale or refinancing of such property, to pay down the interest-only loan since none of the principal balance is being paid down with the borrowers’ monthly payments. If the value of the underlying property declines due to market or other factors, it is likely that the borrower would hold a property that is worth less than the mortgage balance on the property. Thus, there may be greater risk of default by borrowers who enter into interest-only loans. In addition, interest-only loans include an interest reserve in the loan amount. If such reserve is required to be funded due to a borrower’s non-payment, the loan-to-value ratio for that loan will increase, possibly above generally acceptable levels. In the event of a defaulted interest-only loan, we would acquire the underlying collateral which may have declined in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. Any of these factors may result in losses to us. Larger loans result in less portfolio diversity and may increase risk, and the concentration of loans with a common borrower may increase our risk. We intend to invest in loans that individually constitute an average amount equal to the lesser of (a) 1% to 3% of the total amount raised in the Offering, or (b) $2.5 million to $15 million. However, we may invest in larger loans depending on such factors as our performance and the value of the collateral. These larger loans are riskier because they may reduce our ability to diversify our loan portfolio. Our largest loan to a single borrower will not exceed an amount equal to 20% of the total capital contributions raised in the Offering, and as of December 31, 2013, our largest loan to a single borrower is equal to approximately 5% of the total capital contributions raised in the Offering. The concentration of loans with a common borrower may increase our risks. We may invest in multiple mortgage loans that share a common borrower or loans to related borrowers. As of December 31, 2013, we have invested approximately 52% of our offering proceeds in 66 loans to our largest group of related borrowers. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other inability of any borrower that is the subject of multiple loans to pay interest or repay principal on its loans would have adverse consequences on our income and reduce the amount of funds available for distribution to investors. In addition, we expect to be dependent on a limited number of borrowers for a large portion of our business. The more concentrated our portfolio is with one or a few borrowers, the greater credit risk we face. The loss of any one of these borrowers would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 39 Incorrect or changed property values could result in losses and decreased distributions to our shareholders. We depend primarily upon our real estate security to protect us on the loans that we make. We depend partly upon the skill of independent appraisers to value the security underlying our loans and partly upon our Advisor’s internal underwriting and appraisal process. Notwithstanding the experience of the appraisers selected by our Advisor, they or our Advisor may make mistakes, and regardless of decisions made at the time of funding, market conditions may deteriorate for various reasons, causing a decrease to the value of the security for our loans. As a result, there may be less security than anticipated at the time the loan was originally made. If there is less security and a default occurs, we may not recover the full amount of our loan, thus reducing the amount of funds available to distribute to our shareholders. Changes in market interest rates may reduce our income and distributions to our shareholders. A substantial portion of all of our loans are fixed-interest rate loans. Market interest rates on investments comparable to the shares could materially increase above the general level of our fixed-rate loans. Our distributions could then be less than the yield our shareholders may obtain from these other investments. We will also make loans with variable interest rates, which will cause variations in the yield to us from these loans. We may make loans with interest rate guarantee provisions in them, requiring a minimum period of months or years of earned interest even if the loan is paid off during the guarantee period. The duration of the guarantee is subject to negotiation and will likely vary from loan to loan. Other than these provisions, the majority of our loans will not include prepayment penalties for a borrower paying off a loan prior to maturity. The absence of a prepayment penalty in our loans may lead borrowers to refinance higher interest rate loans in a market of falling interest rates. This would then require us to reinvest the prepayment proceeds in loans or alternative short-term investments with lower interest rates and a corresponding lower yield to our shareholders. All of these risks increase as the length of maturity of a loan increases and the amount of cash available for new higher interest loans decreases. A material increase in market interest rates could result in a decrease in the supply of suitable secured loans to us, as there will likely be fewer attractive transactions for borrowers and less activity in the marketplace. Some losses that borrowers might incur may not be insured and may result in defaults that would increase our shareholders’ risk. Our loans require that borrowers of interim construction loans carry adequate hazard insurance for our benefit. Some events are, however, either uninsurable or insurance coverage is economically not practicable. Losses from earthquakes, floods or mudslides, for example, may be uninsured and cause losses to us on entire loans. If a borrower allows insurance to lapse, an event of loss could occur before we become aware of the lapse and have time to obtain insurance ourselves. Insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover property losses, even though our Advisor imposes on borrowers insurance requirements that it believes are adequate. Foreclosures create additional ownership risks to us of unexpected increased costs or decreased income. When we acquire property by foreclosure, we have economic and liability risks as the owner, including: ·less income and reduced cash flows on foreclosed properties than could be earned and received on secured loans; ·selling the homes or lots to homebuyers or homebuilders; ·selling the land to developers, homebuilders or other real estate investors; ·controlling construction or development and holding expenses; ·coping with general and local market conditions; ·complying with changes in laws and regulations pertaining to taxes, use, zoning and environmental protection; and ·possible liability for injury to persons and property. If any of these risks were to materialize, then the return on the particular investment could be reduced, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 40 If we were found to have violated applicable usury laws, we would be subject to penalties and other possible risks. Usury laws generally regulate the amount of interest that may lawfully be charged on indebtedness. Each state has its own distinct usury laws. We believe that our loans will not violate applicable usury laws (as of December 31, 2013, the highest interest rate we have charged on an annualized basis is 15%). There is a risk, however, that a court could determine that our loans do violate applicable usury laws. If we were found to have violated applicable usury laws, we could be subject to penalties, including fines equal to three times the amount of usurious interest collected and restitution to the borrower. Additionally, usury laws often provide that a loan that violates usury laws is unenforceable. If we are subject to penalties or restitution or if our loan agreements are adjudged unenforceable by a court, it would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we would have difficulty making distributions to our shareholders. General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Our operating results may be affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general. Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of assets related to the real estate industry, including: ·changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds; ·changes in general economic or local conditions; ·changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and ·periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the amount of income we receive from our investments. We borrow money to make loans or purchase some of our real estate assets. If we fail to obtain or renew sufficient funding on favorable terms, we will be limited in our ability to make loans or purchase assets, which will harm our results of operations. Furthermore, our shareholders’ risks will increase if defaults occur. We have incurred and may continue to incur substantial debt. We incur, when appropriate, debt at the asset level. Asset level leverage will be determined by the anticipated term of the investment and the cash flow expected by the investment. Asset level leverage is expected to range from 0% to 90% of the asset value. In addition, we incur debt at the fund level. Our board of trustees has adopted a policy to generally limit our fund level borrowings to 50% of the aggregate fair market value of our real estate properties or secured loans once we have invested a majority of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, this offering and subsequent offerings, if any. However, we are permitted by our declaration of trust to borrow up to 300% of our net assets, and may borrow in excess of such amount if such excess borrowing is approved by a majority of our independent trustees and disclosed in our next quarterly report to shareholders, along with justification for such excess. Generally, loans we obtain are secured with recourse to all of our assets, which will put those assets at risk of forfeiture if we are unable to pay our debts. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends, in part, on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. We expect to depend on a few lenders to provide the primary credit facilities for our investments. In addition, our existing indebtedness may limit our ability to make additional borrowings. If our lenders do not allow us to renew our borrowings or we cannot replace maturing borrowings on favorable terms or at all, we might have to sell our investment assets under adverse market conditions, which would harm our results of operations and may result in permanent losses. In addition, loans we obtain may be secured by all of our assets, which will put those assets at risk of forfeiture if we are unable to pay our debts. 41 Dislocations in the credit markets and real estate markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Domestic and international financial markets recently experienced significant dislocations which were brought about in large part by failures in the U.S. banking system. These dislocations have severely impacted the availability of credit and have contributed to rising costs associated with obtaining credit. If debt financing is not available on terms and conditions we find acceptable, we may not be able to obtain financing for investments. If this dislocation in the credit markets persists, our ability to borrow monies to finance investments in real estate assets will be negatively impacted. If we are unable to borrow monies on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we likely will have to reduce the number of real estate investments we can make, and the return on the investments we do make likely will be lower. All of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Our operating results may be negatively affected by potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks. We may provide financing for borrowers that will develop and construct improvements to land at a fixed contract price. We will be subject to risks relating to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, as well as our borrower’s ability to control land development costs or to build infrastructure in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables deemed necessary by builders. The borrower’s failure to perform may necessitate legal action by us to compel performance. Performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the borrower’s control. Delays in completion of construction could also give builders the right to terminate preconstruction lot purchase contracts. These and other such factors can result in increased costs to the borrower that may make it difficult for the borrower to make payments to us. Furthermore, we must rely upon projections of lot take downs, expenses and estimates of the fair market value of property when evaluating whether to make loans. If our projections are inaccurate, and we are forced to foreclose on a property, our return on our investment could suffer. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and other governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges; air emissions; the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks; the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Under limited circumstances, a secured lender, in addition to the owner of real estate, may be liable for clean-up costs or have the obligation to take remedial actions under environmental laws, including, but not limited to, the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability for the costs of investigation or remediation of contaminated properties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. In addition, the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell such property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowing. If we foreclose on a defaulted loan to recover our investment, we may become subject to environmental liabilities associated with that property if we participate in the management of that property or do not divest ourselves of the property at the earliest practicable time on commercially reasonable terms. Environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. It is possible that property on which we foreclose may contain hazardous substances, wastes, contaminants or pollutants that we may be required to remove or remediate in order to clean up the property. If we foreclose on a contaminated property, we may also incur liability to tenants or other users of neighboring properties. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will not incur full recourse liability for the entire cost of removal and cleanup, that the cost of such removal and cleanup will not exceed the value of the property, or that we will recover any of these costs from any other party. It may be difficult or impossible to sell a property following discovery of hazardous substances or wastes on the property. The cost of defending against claims of liability, compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, remediating any contaminated property, or paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. 42 Terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war may affect the industry in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and our shareholders’ investments. We cannot assure our shareholders that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly or indirectly impact the value of the property we own or the property underlying our loans. Losses resulting from these types of events are generally uninsurable. Moreover, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets. They could also result in economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions resulting from terrorist activities could negatively impact borrowers’ ability to repay loans we make to them or harm the value of the property underlying our investments, both of which would impair the value of our investments and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We are subject to risks related to the geographic concentration of the properties securing the loans and equity investments we make. Although we may purchase loans and make investments throughout the contiguous United States, the majority of investments are in the Southeastern and Southwestern United States, with a near term concentration of all of our investing and lending in the major Texas submarkets (100%, as of December 31, 2013). However, if the residential real estate market or general economic conditions in these geographic areas decline to an extent greater than we forecast, or recover to a lesser extent than we forecast, our and our borrowers’ ability to sell homes, lots and land located in these areas may be impaired, we may experience a greater rate of default on the loans or other investments we make with respect to real estate in these areas, and the value of the homes and parcels in which we invest and which are underlying our investments in these areas could decline. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory requirements, including regulations regarding interest rates, mortgage laws, securities laws and the taxation of REITs or business trusts, which may adversely affect our operations. Federal and state lending laws and regulations generally regulate interest rates and many other aspects of real estate loans and contracts. Violations of those laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the extent to which any law or regulation that may be enacted or enforced in the future may affect our operations. In addition, the costs to comply with these laws and regulations may adversely affect our profitability. Future changes to the laws and regulations affecting us, including changes to mortgage laws, securities laws and the Internal Revenue Code applicable to the taxation of REITs or business trusts, could make it more difficult or expensive for us to comply with such laws or otherwise harm our business. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to maintain our REIT status would adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions. We made an election under Section 856(c) of the Internal Revenue Code to be taxed as a REIT, beginning with the taxable year ended December 31, 2010. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements set forth in the Internal Revenue Code and treasury regulations promulgated thereunder and various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. We structure our activities in a manner designed to satisfy all of these requirements. However, if certain of our operations were to be recharacterized by the Internal Revenue Service, such recharacterization could jeopardize our ability to satisfy all of the requirements for qualification as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we may be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to shareholders would no longer qualify for the distributions paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Qualification as a REIT is subject to the satisfaction of tax requirements and various factual matters and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. New legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of being a REIT. Our failure to continue to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our shareholders’ returns on their investments. 43 Our investment strategy may cause us to incur penalty taxes, lose our REIT status, or own and sell properties through taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of which would diminish the return to our shareholders. In light of our investment strategy, it is possible that one or more sales of our properties may be “prohibited transactions” under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. If we are deemed to have engaged in a “prohibited transaction” (i.e., we sell a property held by us primarily for sale in the ordinary course of our trade or business), all income that we derive from such sale would be subject to a 100% tax. The Internal Revenue Code sets forth a safe harbor for REITs that wish to sell property without risking the imposition of the 100% tax. A principal requirement of the safe harbor is that the REIT must hold the applicable property for not less than two years prior to its sale. Given our investment strategy, it is entirely possible, if not likely, that the sale of one or more of our properties will not fall within the prohibited transaction safe harbor. If we desire to sell a property pursuant to a transaction that does not fall within the safe harbor, we may be able to avoid the 100% penalty tax if we acquired the property through a TRS or acquired the property and transferred it to a TRS for a non-tax business purpose prior to the sale (for a reason other than the avoidance of taxes). However, there may be circumstances that prevent us from using a TRS in a transaction that does not qualify for the safe harbor. Additionally, even if it is possible to effect a property disposition through a TRS, we may decide to forego the use of a TRS in a transaction that does not meet the safe harbor based on our own internal analysis, the opinion of counsel or the opinion of other tax advisors that the disposition will not be subject to the 100% penalty tax. In cases where a property disposition is not effected through a TRS, the Internal Revenue Service could successfully assert that the disposition constitutes a prohibited transaction, in which event all of the net income from the sale of such property will be payable as a tax and none of the proceeds from such sale will be distributable by us to our shareholders or available for investment by us. If we acquire a property that we anticipate will not fall within the safe harbor from the 100% penalty tax upon disposition, then we may acquire such property through a TRS in order to avoid the possibility that the sale of such property will be a prohibited transaction and subject to the 100% penalty tax. If we already own such a property directly or indirectly through an entity other than a TRS, we may contribute the property to a TRS if there is another, non-tax related business purpose for the contribution of such property to the TRS. Following the transfer of the property to a TRS, the TRS will operate the property and may sell such property and distribute the net proceeds from such sale to us, and we may distribute the net proceeds distributed to us by the TRS to our shareholders. Though a sale of the property by a TRS may eliminate the danger of the application of the 100% penalty tax, the TRS itself would be subject to a tax at the federal level, and potentially at the state and local levels, on the gain realized by it from the sale of the property, as well as on the income earned while the property is operated by the TRS. This tax obligation would diminish the amount of the proceeds from the sale of such property that would be distributable to our shareholders. As a result, the amount available for distribution to our shareholders would be substantially less than if the REIT had not operated and sold such property through the TRS and such transaction was not characterized as a prohibited transaction. The maximum federal corporate income tax rate currently is 35%. Federal, state and local corporate income tax rates may be increased in the future, and any such increase would reduce the amount of the net proceeds available for distribution by us to our shareholders from the sale of property through a TRS after the effective date of any increase in such tax rates. If we own too many properties through one or more TRSs, then we may lose our status as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we may be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to shareholders would no longer qualify for the distributions paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. As a REIT, the value of the securities we hold in all of our TRSs may not exceed 25% of the value of all of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that the value of our interests in all of our TRSs exceeded 25% of the value of total assets at the end of any calendar quarter, then we would fail to qualify as a REIT. If we determine it to be in our best interests to own a substantial number of our properties through one or more TRSs, then it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service may conclude that the value of our interests in our TRSs exceeds 25% of the value of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter and therefore cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Additionally, as a REIT, no more than 25% of our gross income with respect to any year may be from sources other than real estate. Distributions paid to us from a TRS are considered to be non-real estate income. Therefore, we may fail to qualify as a REIT if distributions from all of our TRSs, when aggregated with all other non-real estate income with respect to any one year, are more than 25% of our gross income with respect to such year. We will use all reasonable efforts to structure our activities in a manner that satisfies the requirements for qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our shareholders’ returns on their investments. 44 Certain fees paid to us may affect our REIT status. Certain fees and income we receive could be characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as non-qualifying income for purposes of satisfying the “income tests” required for REIT qualification. If this fee income were, in fact, treated as non-qualifying, and if the aggregate of such fee income and any other non-qualifying income in any taxable year ever exceeded 5% of our gross revenues for such year, we could lose our REIT status for that taxable year and the four ensuing taxable years. We will use all reasonable efforts to structure our activities in a manner that satisfies the requirements for our qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our shareholders’ returns on their investments. Shareholders may have tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in our common shares of beneficial interest, and they may have to use funds from other sources to pay such tax liability. If shareholders elect to have their distributions reinvested in our common shares of beneficial interest pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested that does not represent a return of capital. As a result, unless a shareholder is a tax-exempt entity, a shareholder may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the shares received. If our operating partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership, its income may be subject to taxation, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We intend to maintain the status of our operating partnership, UDF IV OP, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge the status of the operating partnership as a partnership, it would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that the operating partnership could make to us. This would also result in our losing REIT status, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our own income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to make distributions and the return on our shareholders’ investments. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which the operating partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the operating partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain REIT status. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state taxes on income as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” such income will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the interest on our secured loans or the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our shareholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, shareholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly make secured loans or own our assets. Any federal or state taxes paid by us will reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 45 Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect the returns to our investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of the federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in our common shares of beneficial interest. On March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”). The Reconciliation Act will require certain U.S. shareholders who are individuals, estates or trusts to pay a 3.8% Medicare tax on, among other things, dividends on and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of shares, subject to certain exceptions. This additional tax will apply broadly to essentially all dividends and all gains from dispositions of shares, including dividends from REITs and gains from dispositions of REIT shares, such as our common shares of beneficial interest. Additional changes to the tax laws are likely to continue to occur, and we cannot assure investors that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a shareholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. Investors are urged to consult with their own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on their investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. Congress passed major federal tax legislation in 2003, with modifications to that legislation in 2005 and an extension of that legislation by the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. One of the changes effected by that legislation generally reduced the maximum tax rate on qualified dividends paid by corporations to individuals to 15% through 2012. On January 3, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, extending such 15% qualified dividend rate for 2013 and subsequent taxable years for those unmarried individuals with income under $400,000 and for married couples with income under $450,000. For those with income above such thresholds, the qualified dividend rate is 20%. REIT distributions, however, generally do not constitute qualified dividends and consequently are not eligible for this reduced maximum tax rate. Therefore, our shareholders will pay federal income tax on our distributions (other than capital gains dividends or distributions which represent a return of capital for tax purposes) at the applicable “ordinary income” rate, the maximum of which is currently 39.6%. However, as a REIT, we generally would not be subject to federal or state corporate income taxes on that portion of our ordinary income or capital gain that we distribute currently to our shareholders, and we thus expect to avoid the “double taxation” to which other companies are typically subject. Although REITs continue to receive substantially better tax treatment than entities taxed as corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a corporation. As a result, our declaration of trust provides our board of trustees with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a corporation, without the vote of our shareholders. Our board of trustees has fiduciary duties to us and our shareholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our shareholders. Equity participation in secured loans may result in taxable income and gains from these properties, which could adversely impact our REIT status. If we participate under a secured loan in any appreciation of the properties securing the secured loan or its cash flow and the Internal Revenue Service characterizes this participation as “equity,” we might have to recognize income, gains and other items from the property. This could affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. Distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as UBTI and tax-exempt investors would be required to pay tax on such income and to file income tax returns. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common shares of beneficial interest nor gain from the sale of shares should generally constitute UBTI to a tax-exempt investor. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule, including: ·under certain circumstances, part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our shares may be treated as UBTI if our shares are predominately held by qualified employee pension trusts, such that we are a “pension-held” REIT (which we do not expect to be the case); 46 ·part of the income and gain recognized by a tax-exempt investor with respect to our shares would constitute UBTI if such investor incurs debt in order to acquire the common shares of beneficial interest; and ·part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common shares of beneficial interest held by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation under Sections 501(c)(7), (9), (17) or (20) of the Internal Revenue Code may be treated as UBTI. Distributions to foreign investors may be treated as ordinary income distributions to the extent that they are made out of current or accumulated earnings and profits. In general, foreign investors will be subject to regular U.S. federal income tax with respect to their investment in our shares if the income derived therefrom is “effectively connected” with the foreign investor’s conduct of a trade or business in the United States. A distribution to a foreign investor that is not attributable to gain realized by us from the sale or exchange of a “U.S. real property interest” within the meaning of the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980, as amended, or FIRPTA, and that we do not designate as a capital gain dividend, will be treated as an ordinary income distribution to the extent that it is made out of current or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes). Generally, any ordinary income distribution will be subject to a U.S. federal income tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of the distribution, unless this tax is reduced by the provisions of an applicable treaty. Foreign investors may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the sale of their shares. A foreign investor disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. entity whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to FIRPTA tax on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of shares in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is “domestically controlled” if less than 50% of the REIT’s shares, by value, have been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. While we intend to qualify as “domestically controlled,” we cannot assure shareholders that we will. If we were to fail to so qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of our shares would be subject to FIRPTA tax, unless the shares were traded on an established securities market and the foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of our outstanding common shares of beneficial interest. Foreign investors may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the payment of a capital gain distribution. A foreign investor also may be subject to income tax under FIRPTA tax upon the payment of any capital gain distribution by us that is attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests. Under FIRPTA, such distributions are taxed as though the foreign investor were engaged in a trade or business and the distributions constituted income that was effectively connected with such trade or business. A REIT is generally required to withhold 35% of all capital gain distributions paid to foreign investors to the extent attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests. We encourage investors to consult their own tax advisor to determine the tax consequences applicable to them if they are a foreign investor. Risks Related to Investments by Tax-Exempt Entities and Benefit Plans Subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) If our shareholders fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our common shares of beneficial interest, they could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. There are special considerations that apply to tax-qualified pension, stock bonus or profit-sharing plans, employee benefit plans described in Section 3(3) of ERISA and other retirement plans or accounts subject to Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code (such as individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) or annuities described in Sections 408 or 408A of the Internal Revenue Code, annuities described in Sections 403(a) or (b) of the Internal Revenue Code, Archer MSAs described in Section 220(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, health savings accounts described in Section 223(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, and Coverdell education savings accounts described in Section 530 of the Internal Revenue Code) that are investing in our shares. If investors are investing the assets of a plan or IRA in our common shares of beneficial interest, they should satisfy themselves that, among other things: ·their investment is consistent with their fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code applicable to their plan or IRA, and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code applicable to their plan or IRA; 47 ·their investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing their plan or IRA (including their plan’s investment policy, if applicable); ·their investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and all other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code that may apply to their plan or IRA; ·their investment will not impair the liquidity needs of the plan or IRA, including liquidity needs to satisfy minimum and other distribution requirements and tax withholding requirements that may be applicable; ·their investment will not produce UBTI for the plan or IRA; ·they will be able to value the assets of the plan or IRA annually or more frequently in accordance with ERISA and Internal Revenue Code requirements and any applicable provisions of the plan or IRA; ·their investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code; and ·our assets will not be treated as “plan assets” of their plan or IRA. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil (and, if willful, criminal) penalties and could subject the responsible fiduciaries to liability and equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the “party-in-interest” or “disqualified person” who engaged in the prohibited transaction may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount involved, and for IRAs, the tax-exempt status of the IRA may be lost. This summary does not include a discussion of any laws, regulations, or statutes that may apply to investors not covered by ERISA, including, for example, plans or arrangements that constitute governmental plans or church plans which are exempt from ERISA and many Internal Revenue Code requirements. For such plans and arrangements, applicable laws (such as state laws) may impose fiduciary responsibility requirements in connection with the investment of assets, and may have prohibitions that operate similarly to the prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, but which may also vary significantly from such prohibitions. For any governmental or church plan, or other plans or arrangements not subject to ERISA, those persons responsible for the investment of the assets of such plans or arrangements should carefully consider the impact of such laws on an investment in our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 