Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a significant degree of risk. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this report. Some of the risks described below relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our spin-off from Potlatch. The remaining risks relate principally to the securities markets generally and ownership of our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2008 FORM 10-K 7 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business The current downturn in the United States and global economy and conditions in financial markets could have adverse affects on our business and financial results. The current U.S. and global economic recession, coupled with the disruption in the global financial and credit markets, have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, our business and financial results. Potential negative effects on our business include: ¡ a continued and prolonged severe downturn in housing starts, which would further increase our production costs due to lower wood fiber supplies and extend the slump in demand for our wood products; ¡ further decreases in domestic and global demand for pulp; and ¡ the possibility that some of our customers and suppliers may be unable to continue to operate their businesses due to financial distress or insolvency, resulting in risks to the collection of our accounts receivable and the ability of suppliers to fill our orders. In addition, current conditions in financial markets, which include the bankruptcy and restructuring of certain financial institutions, could limit access to our credit facility and thus adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. Also, continuing turmoil in the financial markets could make it more difficult for us to refinance our existing indebtedness, sell assets, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding from the issuance of our securities. Significant declines in the value of our pension asset portfolio have resulted in an underfunded status of our pension plans, which may require us to make significant cash contributions to our plans over time. We have company-sponsored pension plans covering our salaried and hourly employees. The significant decline of the stock market in 2008 and resulting substantial decline in the value of equity and fixed income investments held by the plans in 2008 has caused these pension plans to be underfunded because our projected benefit obligation exceeds the aggregate fair value of plan assets. Under applicable law, we are required to make cash contributions to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding levels imposed by regulatory requirements. Despite passage in December 2008 of federal legislation providing short-term funding relief, we are required to make contributions to our qualified pension plans for 2009 ($8.7 million plus interest payable by September 2010), and we may be required to make increased annual contributions to our pension plans in future years, which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. There can be no assurance that the value of pension plans will be sufficient to cover future liabilities. Changes in the cost and availability of wood fiber used in production of our products may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Wood fiber, primarily wood chips and sawdust, is the principal raw material for our pulp and paperboard products and, in 2008, accounted for approximately 34% of our Pulp and Paperboard segment’s total costs of production. Wood chip and sawdust prices were at historically high levels in 2008. Our average cost per ton of wood chips and sawdust was approximately $203 per ton in 2008, an increase of 25% over the approximately $163 per ton in 2007, which was an increase of 20% over the approximately $136 per ton in 2006. In the event we are not able to pass increases in wood fiber costs along to our customers, our operating results may be significantly harmed. Much of the wood fiber we use in our pulp manufacturing process is the by-product of lumber mill operations, particularly in Idaho. As a result, the price of these residual wood fibers is affected by operating levels in the lumber industry. Prices for these residual fibers are currently very high, largely because of limited supplies due to the slowdown or shutdown of lumber mill operations in the United States as a result of the home construction market downturn. In addition, we have had to locate new suppliers as some of the suppliers located near our Idaho facility have ceased operations, which has resulted in increased costs to us for transporting wood fiber to our Idaho facility. The price of wood fiber is expected to remain high until the housing market recovers and lumber mill operations increase. If we are not able to obtain wood fiber at favorable prices or at all, our financial results and operations may be materially adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents The cost of energy and chemicals needed for our manufacturing processes significantly affects our business. Energy costs, including costs for natural gas and purchased electricity, accounted for approximately 10% and 9% of our total production costs in 2008 and 2007, respectively. While we produce internally a significant portion of the steam and electricity we consume at our Idaho facility, our energy costs have been rising. Our expenses for energy used in our manufacturing processes were $113.7 million in 2008, an increase of 27% over the $89.8 million in 2007, which in turn was 5% higher than the $85.8 million we spent in 2006. In periods of high energy prices, market conditions may prevent us from passing higher energy costs on to our customers through price increases, and therefore increased costs could adversely affect our operating results. We purchase on the open market a substantial portion of the natural gas necessary to produce our products, and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand and government regulation. To help mitigate the exposure to market risk for changes in natural gas commodity pricing, we use firm-price contracts to supply a portion of our natural gas requirements. As of December 31, 2008, these contracts covered approximately 39% of the expected average monthly natural gas requirements for our Pulp and Paperboard and Consumer Products segments for 2009, plus lesser amounts for 2010. Our energy costs in future periods will depend principally on our ability to produce a substantial portion of our electricity needs internally, on changes in market prices for natural gas and on reducing energy usage. The supply of energy may be adversely affected by, among other things, hurricanes and other natural disasters or an outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, events in the Middle East. Any significant shortage or significant increase in our energy costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in the supply of energy could also affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. Furthermore, we may be required to post letters of credit or other financial assurance obligations with our natural gas suppliers, which could limit our financial flexibility. We also use a variety of chemicals in our manufacturing processes, including latex and polyethylene, many of which are petroleum-based chemicals. Prices for these chemicals have been and are expected to remain volatile. In 2008, a supplier announced two separate price increases of the chemicals that we purchase from it, for an aggregate price increase of 50%. In addition, chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their chemicals may, due to supply shortages and cost increases, ration the amount of chemicals available to us, and therefore we may not be able to obtain at favorable prices the chemicals we need to operate our business, if we are able to obtain them at all. Finally, certain specialty chemicals that we purchase are available only from a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to obtain such chemicals at favorable prices, if at all. Cyclical industry conditions have in the past affected and may continue to adversely affect the operating results and cash flow of our Pulp and Paperboard business. The pulp and paperboard industries are highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in manufacturing capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volumes and margins for our pulp and paperboard products. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry manufacturing capacity. Pulp and most of our paperboard products are commodities that are widely available from other producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. Industry supply of pulp and paperboard products is primarily influenced by fluctuations in available manufacturing capacity. When manufacturing capacity is increased, there may be an oversupply of products in our industry which results in a weak pricing environment. During periods of oversupply, some producers may choose to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire mills. Alternatively, some producers may choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2008 FORM 10-K 9 Table of Contents environments. Oversupply can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of pulp and paperboard products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. While the weakness of the U.S. dollar has mitigated the levels of imports in recent years, strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the future could result in an increase in imports of pulp and paperboard products, putting downward pressure on prices. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may significantly affect our competitive position by making it more attractive for foreign producers to restart closed mills or increase production capacity. The overall levels of demand for pulp and paperboard products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and worldwide. Market prices for pulp have decreased significantly since the third quarter of 2008, driven, in part, by decreased demand for pulp from China. Prices for our pulp and paperboard products are driven by many factors outside of our control, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes. As a result, the price for any one or more of these products may fall below our production costs, requiring us to either incur losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. Our profitability with respect to these products depends on our ability to manage our cost structure, particularly wood fiber, chemical and energy costs, which represent the largest components of our operating costs and can fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control. If the prices of, or demand for, our pulp and paperboard products decline, or if our wood fiber, chemical, energy or other key production costs increase, or both, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our Consumer Products business receives a substantial portion of its net sales from three customers, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from any of these customers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our Consumer Products segment derived 58% of its net sales in 2008, and we derived 23% of our total net sales in 2008, from three customers. Sales to these three customers have represented approximately 58% of segment net sales in each of the last three fiscal years. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these customers that ensure a continuing level of business from them. Our agreements with these customers are not exclusive and do not contain minimum volume commitments. Our relationships with these three customers depend on our ability to continue to meet their needs for quality products at competitive prices. If we lose one of these customers or if we experience a significant decline in the level of purchases by any of them, we may not be able to quickly replace the lost business volume and our operating results and business could be harmed. In addition, our focus on these large accounts could affect our ability to serve our smaller accounts, particularly when product supply is tight and we are not able to fully satisfy orders for these smaller accounts. Significant competition could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our net sales and profitability. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and companies that have substantially greater financial resources than we do compete with us in each market. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs. Our Consumer Products business faces competition from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. Our Consumer Products business competes with the branded tissue products producers, such as Procter & Gamble, and branded label producers who manufacture branded and private label products, such as Georgia-Pacific and Kimberly-Clark. These companies are far larger than us, have much greater sales, marketing and research and development resources than we do, and enjoy significant cost advantages due to economies of scale. Because of their size and resources, these companies may foresee market trends more accurately than we do and develop new technologies that render our products less attractive or obsolete. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully compete in the pulp and paperboard industry is influenced by a number of factors, including manufacturing capacity, general economic conditions and the availability and demand for paperboard substitutes. Our Pulp and Paperboard business competes with International Paper, MeadWestvaco, Georgia-Pacific, Rock-Tenn and international producers, most of whom are much larger than us. Any increase in manufacturing capacity by any of these producers could result in overcapacity in the pulp and paperboard industry, which could cause downward pressure on pricing. In addition, customers could choose to use types of paperboard that we do not produce or could rely on alternative materials, such as plastic, for their products. An increased supply of any of these products could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in our freight costs could have a material adverse effect on the gross margins of our business. Our business, primarily our Consumer Products business, is substantially dependent on freight services to transport our products to our customers and deliver raw materials to us. In 2008, freight costs for our business were 12% of our total production costs. The costs of these freight services were affected by increasing fuel prices. During 2008, we incurred increased fuel surcharges, which were over and above the standard price quoted for these services. We have not been in the past and may not in the future be able to pass along part or all of these fuel surcharges to our customers. If we are unable to increase our prices to respond to increased fuel costs charged to us by our transportation providers, our gross margins may be materially adversely affected. We depend on third parties for certain transportation services and any disruption in these services may have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of our raw materials to us and transportation of our products to our customers. If any of our transportation providers fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively impact our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, which could increase our costs and subject us to liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and chemicals contained in our products. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We expect to continue to incur capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Capital expenditures specifically designated for environmental compliance totaled approximately $0.6 million and $2.0 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment, remedial actions or product recalls or labeling. We may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including tort liability, resulting from past or present spills or releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our mills. Liability under these laws may be imposed without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such substances on our property, and, in some cases, may not be limited to the value of the property. We believe that our facilities and operations are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We cannot be certain, however, that situations that may give rise to material environmental liabilities will not be discovered or that the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations will not require significant expenditures by us. There CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2008 FORM 10-K 11 Table of Contents can be no assurance that internally generated funds or other sources of liquidity and capital will be sufficient to fund unforeseen environmental liabilities or expenditures. Our business and financial performance may be harmed by future labor disruptions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 65% of our workforce was unionized. As a result, there is a risk of work stoppage due to strikes or walkouts. Any significant work stoppage as a result of failure to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2009, one collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 225 employees will expire. We regularly incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment and any interruption in the operations of our facilities may affect our operating performance. We regularly incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment. The machines and equipment that we use to produce our products are complex, have many parts and some are run on a continuous basis. We must perform routine maintenance on our equipment and have to periodically replace a variety of parts such as motors, pumps, pipes and electrical parts. In 2008, equipment maintenance and repair expenses, including labor, were $62.0 million in our Pulp and Paperboard segment, $21.3 million in our Consumer Products segment and $4.8 million in our Wood Products segment. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund our ongoing maintenance requirements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our pulp and paperboard mills require periodic shutdowns to perform major maintenance. We generally schedule shutdowns of our Idaho pulp and paperboard mill for up to a week each year. Scheduled shutdowns of our Arkansas pulp and paperboard mill occur approximately every 18 months and typically last up to a week. These scheduled shutdowns of our pulp and paperboard mills result in decreased sales and increased costs in the periods in which the shutdown occurs. Unexpected production disruptions could also cause us to shut down any of our mills. Those disruptions could occur due to any number of circumstances, including shortages of raw materials, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes and mechanical or process failures. In addition, the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including snow and ice storms, forest fires and flooding. Any mill shutdowns may be followed by prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Furthermore, during periods of weak demand for our products, we have in the past and may in the future experience market-related downtime. The shutdown of any of our mills for a substantial period of time for any reason could harm our results of operations. Our obligations under the retained obligation agreement could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. In connection with the spin-off, we retained the obligation to pay the interest and principal associated with $100 million principal amount of debentures previously issued by an affiliate of Potlatch that becomes due and payable in full in December 2009. In addition, we immediately drew $50 million from our $125 million revolving credit facility and transferred such amount to a subsidiary of Potlatch. As a result, we had $150 million principal amount of debt outstanding at December 31, 2008. The interest rate that we are required to pay on the debentures, currently 12.5%, is based on Potlatch’s credit ratings applicable to the debentures. If Potlatch’s credit ratings decline, we will be required to pay interest on the debentures at an interest rate as high as 14.0%. We have no control over whether the interest rate on the debentures will increase. We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to issue, as soon as reasonably practical, debt or equity securities, or to borrow money from one or more financial institutions or other lenders, on terms reasonably acceptable to us, in an aggregate amount sufficient to pay all amounts owing under the debentures. We may not be able to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in which case we will be required to use cash from our operations to pay the obligations or incur indebtedness 12 Table of Contents to Potlatch that will bear an increased interest rate and be secured by certain of our assets. In addition, we will have to apply the proceeds from future debt or equity issuance, or asset sales in excess of $50 million to satisfy our obligations under the retained obligation agreement. Our obligation to pay the amounts due on the debentures or any indebtedness to Potlatch arising by virtue of our inability to make payments due on the debentures may: ¡ limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; ¡ require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other corporate purposes; ¡ limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; ¡ place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt; ¡ make it more difficult or infeasible for us to pay future cash dividends; ¡ along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our revolving credit agreement, among other things, limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and ¡ make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. In the event we are unable to timely pay the debenture obligations in full, and Potlatch thereafter makes payment of principal or interest due under the debentures, we will be deemed to have a loan payable to Potlatch in the amount paid by Potlatch, and we will be obligated to issue a promissory note to Potlatch equal to such amount. All amounts owing under any promissory note issued by us to Potlatch will be due and payable on December 1, 2011. Any such promissory note will initially accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest applicable to the debentures at the time the note is issued, plus one percent, and after December 1, 2010 until paid in full, the rate of interest applicable to the debentures at the time the note is issued, plus two percent. As discussed above, the rate currently applicable to the debentures is 12.5% per annum. In the event we issue a promissory note to Potlatch, we will be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts prior to the maturity date to issue, as soon as reasonably practical, debt or equity securities or to borrow money (other than under our revolving credit facility), on terms reasonably acceptable to us, in an aggregate amount sufficient to prepay all amounts owing under the promissory note. As security for any such promissory note issued by us to Potlatch, we will grant Potlatch a security interest in our real property, fixtures and equipment at our Arkansas pulp and paperboard facility. Our business may suffer if we are unable to effectively respond to changes in demand for some of our products or implement our strategies. We have in the past and may in the future experience changes in demand for our products. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to adjust to increases and decreases in demand. For example, our Consumer Products business is experiencing a high demand for napkins and we are outsourcing part of our napkin production to a third party, which increases our costs. If we are unable to implement our business strategies to respond to changes in demand, we may need to limit deliveries of some orders for existing customers, which could harm our reputation and our long-term relationships with these customers. Alternatively, if we experience a decrease in demand for certain products, we may incur significant costs in revising our manufacturing plan and restructuring our manufacturing equipment. If we are not able to respond to changes in demand for our products in a timely manner, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, our success depends in part upon our ability to implement our strategies, including the possibility of opening a tissue facility or facilities on the East Coast. The costs associated with establishing a facility or facilities on the East Coast would be significant. Should we choose to pursue this option, there is no assurance that the new facilities would successfully achieve our goal of expanding our customer base to include East Coast retailers or that the new facilities would generate a positive internal rate of return. Furthermore, the costs associated with establishing the facilities could negatively impact our cash flows and CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2008 FORM 10-K 13 Table of Contents earnings in the short-term. Finally, adding new facilities on the East Coast could increase our exposure to other risks, including labor disputes, environmental risks and interruptions in the operations of our facilities to the extent that the new facilities would be subject to such risks. We have significant indebtedness and federal and state deferred tax liabilities, which will require a significant amount of cash to service and pay. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to pay our obligations or fund our liquidity needs, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our indebtedness was approximately $150 million at December 31, 2008. Our ability to make payments on, to refinance our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and development efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash. A number of factors that affect our ability to generate cash are beyond our control, including economic, financial, competitive and other factors. As of December 31, 2008, we had a deferred tax liability of approximately $101.8 million with respect to the difference between the book and tax basis of our fixed assets. It is anticipated that this liability will become a current tax liability beginning in 2009 at the rate of approximately $8 million per year. In addition, we have other less significant deferred tax balances relating to temporary differences that will impact current taxes payable in future periods. We cannot be certain that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including our obligations to pay certain Potlatch affiliate indebtedness, our additional tax liabilities or other liquidity needs. If our future cash flows from operating activities and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay business activities, sell assets, obtain additional debt or equity capital, restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement any of these alternatives on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of future debt financings could involve restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pursue these alternatives. Risks Relating to the Spin-off Our financial information may not be fully representative of our results as a stand-alone public company. We were not operated, and Potlatch did not account for us, as a stand-alone public company for the periods presented in our financial statements included in this report prior to December 16, 2008. Our financial statements have been carved out from Potlatch’s consolidated financial statements and reflect assumptions and allocations made by Potlatch and prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles. Our financial statements do not fully represent what our financial position, results of operations and cash flow would have been had we operated as a stand-alone public company during the periods presented. We have not made adjustments to reflect the many significant changes that will occur in our capital structure, cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our separation from Potlatch, including the debt and interest expense we will have associated with our revolving credit facility, increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and other costs associated with being a stand-alone public company. Further, we expect to incur approximately $10 million of costs and expenses associated with being an independent public company in 2009 in addition to those costs reflected in our financial statements for 2008. As a result, the historical information included in this report is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flow may be subsequent to the spin-off. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. We have only a limited operating history as an independent, public company. We have only a limited experience operating as an independent, public company and our management has little experience, as a group, in operating our business as a stand-alone entity. We are now fully responsible for arranging our own funding, managing all of our own administrative and employee arrangements and supervising all of our legal and financial affairs, including publicly reported financial statements. We adopted separate stock-based and performance-based incentive plans for our employees and are developing our 14 Table of Contents own compliance and administrative procedures necessary for a publicly held company. Our success in these endeavors will depend substantially upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to work together. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are relatively new to our businesses and therefore do not have a history of operating our businesses. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that as an independent company our aggregate results of operations will continue at the same level. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, our future success requires us to continue to attract and retain competent personnel. The requirements of being a stand-alone public company will increase certain of our costs and require significant management focus. As a stand-alone public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with compliance-related and other activities. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related SEC rules and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. We have had no experience as, and our senior management has limited experience managing, a public company, and our separation from Potlatch resulted in loss of access to Potlatch’s resources and experience in this area. Compliance with these requirements will also result in other costs and obligations and make some activities more time-consuming. In addition, we will incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements and other securities law compliance measures. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for purposes of subsequent reports, we will have to document and test our internal control procedures and our management will have to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting. Going forward, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements, we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perceptions. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, difficulties and expenses encountered by newly public companies. Costs of director and officer liability insurance will contribute to our increased costs. As a result of the associated liability, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. The terms of agreements that we entered into with Potlatch in connection with the spin-off were established at a time when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Potlatch and, accordingly, the terms of these agreements may not be as favorable to us as they might have been had they been negotiated by persons fully independent of Potlatch. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into various agreements with Potlatch regarding our relationship with Potlatch following the spin-off, including a separation and distribution agreement, retained obligation agreement, transition services agreement, employee matters agreement, tax sharing agreement, lease and option agreement and supply agreements. These agreements address important matters, such as allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Potlatch and us. The terms of these agreements were negotiated while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Potlatch, although these agreements are intended to reflect arms-length terms and the pricing provisions of our supply agreements are based on market pricing. These agreements may not be as favorable to us as they might have been had they been negotiated by persons with no relationship to Potlatch. The transition services Potlatch is providing to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may have difficulty finding replacement services or be required to pay increased costs to replace these services after our agreements with Potlatch expire. For a limited period of time following the spin-off, Potlatch has agreed to provide certain transition services to us, including employee benefits administration, information systems, accounting and other services. After the expiration of the transition services agreement, we may not be able to replace the transition services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2008 FORM 10-K 15 Table of Contents comparable to those we are receiving from Potlatch under this agreement. While transition services are being provided by Potlatch to us, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to the services covered may be limited. Potlatch historically provided us, directly or through its own vendor relationships, with insurance coverage, banking services, health and other insurance benefits for our employees and employee benefit plans, as well as with its expertise in certain areas of our operations. We are now responsible for securing all of our own management, financing, legal and other similar resources. Although we are in the process of replacing portions of the transition services currently provided by Potlatch, we may encounter difficulties replacing such services quickly or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently have in effect. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders, and Potlatch could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Potlatch has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment under applicable sections of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, Potlatch has received an opinion from tax counsel that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion rely on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, Potlatch would be subject to tax as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our initial public stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. Under the tax sharing agreement between Potlatch and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Potlatch against any tax resulting from the spin-off (including any tax that would result if Potlatch were to fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust, as a result of income recognized by Potlatch if the spin-off were determined to be taxable) to the extent that such tax resulted from (1) an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, (2) other actions or failures to act by us, or (3) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. Our indemnification obligations to Potlatch and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Potlatch or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. We must abide by certain restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off and may not be able to engage in desirable acquisitions and other strategic transactions following the spin-off. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off to Potlatch and our stockholders, under the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with Potlatch, for the two-year period following the distribution, we may be prohibited, except with the consent of Potlatch, from: ¡ issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs if such issuance would represent a 50% or greater interest in us; ¡ acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities if such issuance would represent a 50% or greater interest in us; or ¡ engaging in mergers or asset transfers that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. The market price at which our common stock trades may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: ¡ general economic, industry and market conditions; ¡ our financial results; ¡ developments generally affecting the pulp, paperboard and tissue industries; ¡ the performance of each of our business segments; ¡ our capital structure, including the amount of our indebtedness; ¡ the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; ¡ fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ¡ our dividend policy; ¡ investor perception of our business and us; and ¡ the impact of the factors referred to elsewhere in “Risk Factors.” In addition, the stock market regularly experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including us and other companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock may fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following: ¡ a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; ¡ the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; ¡ stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent; ¡ advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; ¡ removal of directors only for cause; ¡ allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and ¡ supermajority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, our stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in us without advance approval from our board of directors. While these provisions and our stockholder rights plan have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2008 FORM 10-K 17 Table of Contents in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. We are also subject to Delaware laws that could have similar effects. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with a significant stockholder unless specific conditions are met. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 