ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are "forward looking statements" for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or licensing or collaborative arrangements, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as "believes," "may," "will," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "potential," or "continue" or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward- looking statements contained in this Annual Report are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors set forth below, and for the reasons described elsewhere in this Annual Report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. We were subject to a takeover bid that was disruptive to our business and may continue to distract our management and employees and create uncertainty that may adversely affect our business and results. On September 21, 2009, Biogen Idec, through a wholly owned subsidiary, launched an unsolicited tender offer to acquire the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, subject to a number of terms and conditions contained in the tender offer documents Biogen Idec filed with the SEC. Our Board of Directors unanimously recommended that the Company's stockholders reject Biogen Idec's tender offer, including Biogen Idec's revised offer to purchase all of our outstanding shares of common stock for $17.50 per share, and not tender their shares pursuant to Biogen Idec's tender offer. Biogen Idec's unsolicited tender offer expired without being consummated by Biogen Idec on December 16, 2009. As a result of the tender offer, several parties expressed an interest in the Company and we requested that our financial advisor, Centerview Partners, solicit additional third parties that may have an interest in a transaction that our Board would find in our stockholders' best interests. In addition, we continue to offer Biogen Idec the opportunity to engage in due diligence discussions to determine 18 whether Biogen Idec would materially increase its prior offer to purchase all of our outstanding shares of common stock. The review and consideration of Biogen Idec's unsolicited offer were a significant distraction for our management and employees and required, and the solicitation of additional third parties may continue to require, the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. Moreover, the unsolicited nature of Biogen Idec's offer and our solicitation of additional third parties has created uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to attract new employees. Biogen Idec's unsolicited offer created and our solicitation of additional third parties may continue to create uncertainty for current and potential collaboration partners, licensees and other business partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us. These consequences, alone or in combination, may harm our business and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe that the future trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could be subject to wide price fluctuations based on many factors, including uncertainty associated with the outcome of our solicitation of additional third parties and any subsequent offer by Biogen Idec. Unless our clinical studies demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. To obtain regulatory approval to market and sell any of our existing or future product candidates, we must satisfy the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad, through extensive preclinical and clinical studies, that our product candidates have an acceptable safety profile and are efficacious. We may not conduct the types of testing eventually required by regulatory authorities to demonstrate an adequate safety profile for the particular indication, or the tests may indicate that the safety profile of our product candidates is unacceptably inferior to therapeutics with comparable efficacy or otherwise unsuitable for use in humans in light of the expected therapeutic benefit of the product candidate. Clinical trials and preclinical testing are expensive, can take many years and have an uncertain outcome. In addition, initial testing in preclinical studies or in phase 1 or phase 2 clinical trials may indicate that the safety profile of a product candidate is adequate for approval, but does not ensure that safety issues may not arise in later trials, or that the overall safety profile for a product candidate will be sufficient for regulatory approval in any particular product indication. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the preclinical testing or clinical studies or clinical development, which could delay or prevent our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates, including: •our testing or trials may produce inconclusive or negative safety results, which may require us to conduct additional testing or trials or to abandon product candidates that we believed to be promising; •our product candidates may have unacceptable pharmacology, toxicology or carcinogenicity; and •our product candidates may cause significant adverse effects in patients. Even if we are able to demonstrate efficacy of any product candidate, any adverse safety events would increase our costs and could delay or prevent our ability to continue the development of or commercialize our product candidates, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are aware that our drug candidates can cause various adverse side effects in humans, some of which are predictable and some of which are unpredictable. We proceed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of these drug candidates based on data we accumulate from preclinical assessments and ongoing clinical studies. We believe that our drug candidates have an acceptable safety profile for the potential indications in which we are currently conducting clinical trials. Data from ongoing or future clinical trials may indicate that a drug candidate causes unanticipated or more significant adverse side effects either used alone or when used in combination with other drugs, in 19 particular patient populations or at increased dosages or frequency of administration. This may lead us to conclude that the drug candidate does not have an acceptable safety profile for a particular patient population or use. The clinical development of drug products is inherently uncertain and expensive and subject to extensive government regulation. Our future success depends almost entirely upon the success of our clinical development efforts. Clinical development, however, is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process and subject to significant risks of failure. In addition, we must expend significant amounts to comply with extensive government regulation of the clinical development process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for their intended use in humans. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense for, and we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a significant amount of time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials. Despite the time and expense incurred, our clinical trials may not adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates. Completion of clinical development generally takes several years or more. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and submit an application for marketing and manufacturing approvals varies significantly according to the type, complexity and intended use of the product candidate and is difficult to predict. Further, we, the FDA, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA), investigational review boards or data safety monitoring boards may decide to temporarily suspend or permanently terminate ongoing trials. Failure to comply with extensive regulations may result in unanticipated delay, suspension or cancellation of a trial or the FDA's or EMEA's refusal to accept test results. As a result of these factors, we cannot predict the actual expenses that we will incur with respect to preclinical or clinical trials for any of our potential products, and we expect that our expense levels will fluctuate unexpectedly in the future. Despite the time and expense incurred, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop commercially viable products that will achieve FDA or EMEA approval or market acceptance, and failure to do so would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Early clinical trials such as phase 1 and 2 trials generally are designed to gather information to determine whether further trials are appropriate and, if so, how such trials should be designed. As a result, data gathered in these trials may indicate that the endpoints selected for these trials are not the most relevant for purposes of assessing the product or the design of future trials. Moreover, success or failure in meeting such early clinical trial endpoints is not dispositive of whether further trials are appropriate and, if so, how such trials should be designed. We may decide, or the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require us, to make changes in our plans and protocols. Such changes may relate, for example, to changes in the standard of care for a particular disease indication, comparability of efficacy and toxicity of potential drug product where a change in the manufacturing process or manufacturing site is proposed, or competitive developments foreclosing the availability of expedited approval procedures. We may be required to support proposed changes with additional preclinical or clinical testing, which could delay the expected time line for concluding clinical trials. Larger or later stage clinical trials may not produce the same results as earlier trials. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, including advanced clinical trials, even after promising results had been obtained in earlier trials. For example, in August 2007, PDL announced that it would terminate the phase 3 program of its visilizumab antibody in intravenous steroid-refractory ulcerative colitis because data from treated patients showed insufficient efficacy and an inferior safety profile in the visilizumab arm compared to IV steroids alone. 20 Even when a drug candidate shows evidence of efficacy in a clinical trial, it may be impossible to further develop or receive regulatory approval for the drug if it causes an unacceptable incidence or severity of side effects, or further development may be slowed by the need to find dosing regimens that do not cause such side effects. In addition, we may not be able to successfully commence and complete all of our planned clinical trials without significant additional resources and expertise because we have a number of potential products in clinical development. The approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, and may involve post-marketing surveillance and requirements for post-marketing studies. The approval of a product candidate may depend on the acceptability to the FDA or other regulatory agencies of data from our clinical trials. Regulatory requirements are subject to frequent change. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: •adversely affect the successful commercialization of any drugs that we develop; •impose costly procedures on us; •diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and •adversely affect our receipt of any revenues or royalties. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or failures of our clinical trials as a result of many factors, all of which may increase the costs and expense associated with the trial, including: •changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development; •delays in obtaining sufficient supply of materials to enroll and complete clinical studies according to planned timelines; •delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study; •delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; •delays in the enrollment of patients; •lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or •unforeseen safety issues. Regulatory review of our clinical trial protocols may cause us in some cases to delay or abandon our planned clinical trials. Our potential inability to commence or continue clinical trials, to complete the clinical trials on a timely basis or to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our potential products, further adds to the uncertainty of regulatory approval for our potential products. We may be unable to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely manner in order to complete our clinical trials. The rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: •the size of the patient population; •perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; •availability of competing therapies, including those in clinical development; •availability of clinical drug supply; •availability of clinical trial sites; 21 •design of the protocol; •proximity of and access by patients to clinical sites; •patient referral practices of physicians; •eligibility criteria for the study in question; and •efforts of the sponsor of and clinical sites involved in the trial to facilitate timely enrollment. We may have difficulty obtaining sufficient patient enrollment or clinician support to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we may need to expend substantial additional funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations may result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead us to consider the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication. If our collaborations are not successful or are terminated by our collaborators, we may not effectively develop and market some of our product candidates. We have agreements with biotechnology and other companies to develop, manufacture and market certain of our potential products. In some cases, we rely on our collaborators to manufacture such products and essential components for those products, design and conduct clinical trials, compile and analyze the data received from these trials, obtain regulatory approvals and, if approved, market these licensed products. As a result, we may have limited or no control over the manufacturing, development and marketing of these potential products and little or no opportunity to review the clinical data prior to or following public announcement. In addition, the design of the clinical studies may not be sufficient or appropriate for regulatory review and approval and we may have to conduct further studies in order to facilitate approval. In September 2005 we entered into collaboration agreements with Biogen Idec for the joint development of daclizumab in certain indications, including MS, and volociximab (M200) in all indications; in August 2008 with BMS for the co-development of elotuzumab in multiple myeloma and other potential oncology indications; and in August 2009 with Trubion for the co-development of TRU-016, a product candidate in phase 1 clinical trials for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. These agreements are particularly important to us. The collaboration agreements provide significant combined resources for the development, manufacture and potential commercialization of covered products. We and our collaborators each assume certain responsibilities and share expenses. Because of the broad scope of the collaborations, we are particularly dependent upon the performance by Biogen Idec, BMS and Trubion of their respective obligations under the agreements. The failure of our collaborators to perform their obligations, our failure to perform our obligations, our failure to effectively manage the relationships, or a material contractual dispute between us and either of our collaborators could have a material adverse effect on our prospects or financial results. Moreover, our financial results depend in substantial part upon our efforts and related expenses for these programs. Our revenues and expenses recognized under each collaboration will vary depending on the work performed by us and our collaborators in any particular reporting period. We rely on other collaborators, such as contract manufacturers, clinical research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, including physician sponsors, to conduct nearly all of our clinical trials, including recruiting and enrolling patients in the trials. If these parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be delayed or may not obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. If any of the third parties upon whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials do not comply with applicable laws, successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. 22 If the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained by third party contractors is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws, our clinical protocols or for other reasons, we may not obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates. If our relationships with any of these organizations or individuals terminates, we believe that we would be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties. However, replacing any of these third parties could delay our clinical trials and could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Our collaborators can terminate our collaborative agreements under certain conditions, and in some cases on short notice. A collaborator may terminate its agreement with us or separately pursue alternative products, therapeutic approaches or technologies as a means of developing treatments for the diseases targeted by us, or our collaborative effort. Even if a collaborator continues to contribute to the arrangement, it may nevertheless decide not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. In these circumstances, our ability to pursue potential products could be severely limited. In 2004 and 2005, we entered into two collaboration arrangements with Roche for the joint development and commercialization of daclizumab for the treatment of asthma and other respiratory diseases and transplant indications. In 2006, Roche notified us of its election to discontinue its involvement in both of these collaboration arrangements. As a result of the termination of this relationship, we suspended the active clinical development of daclizumab in these indications and, consequently, the development expenses related to the development of daclizumab in these indications were reduced from historical and forecasted levels. Under the terms of the agreement governing this collaboration with Roche, the costs of clinical studies and other development costs were shared by Roche through the effective termination dates, so our financial condition was not materially affected as a result of the termination of these collaborations. Continued funding and participation by collaborators will depend on the continued timely achievement of our research and development objectives, the retention of key personnel performing work under those agreements and on each collaborator's own financial, competitive, marketing and strategic capabilities and priorities. These considerations include: •the commitment of each collaborator's management to the continued development of the licensed products or technology; •the relationships among the individuals responsible for the implementation and maintenance of the development efforts; and •the relative advantages of alternative products or technology being marketed or developed by each collaborator or by others, including their relative patent and proprietary technology positions, and their ability to manufacture potential products successfully. Our ability to enter into new relationships and the willingness of our existing collaborators to continue development of our potential products depends upon, among other things, our patent position with respect to such products. If we are unable to successfully maintain our patents we may be unable to collect royalties on existing licensed products or enter into additional agreements. In addition, our collaborators may independently develop products that are competitive with products that we have licensed to them. This could reduce our revenues or the likelihood of achieving revenues under our agreements with these collaborators. 23 If our research and development efforts are not successful, we may not be able to effectively develop new products. We are engaged in research activities intended to, among other things, progress therapeutic candidates into clinical development. In the near-term, we will focus on obtaining new product candidates through various means, including in-licensing them from or entering in to strategic collaborations with institutions or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. Acquiring rights to products in this manner poses risks, including that we may not be unable to successfully integrate the research, development and commercialization capabilities necessary to bring these products to market. In addition, we may not be able to identify or acquire suitable products to in-license. Our antibody product candidates are in various stages of development and many are in an early development stage. If we are unsuccessful in our research efforts to identify and obtain rights to new validated targets and develop product candidates that lead to the required regulatory approvals and the successful commercialization of products, our ability to develop new products could be harmed. We must protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to succeed. Our success is dependent in significant part on our ability to develop and protect patent and other intellectual property rights and operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of valid patents or the claims and claim scope of our issued patents may not provide competitive advantages. Also, our patent protection may not prevent others from developing competitive products using related or other technology that does not infringe our patent rights. A number of companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or received patents in the areas of antibodies and other fields relating to our programs. Some of these applications or patents may be competitive with our applications or have claims that could prevent the issuance of patents to us or result in a significant reduction in the claim scope of our issued patents. In addition, patent applications are confidential for a period of time after filing. We therefore may not know that a competitor has filed a patent application covering subject matter similar to subject matter in one of our patent applications or that we were the first to invent the innovation we seek to patent. This may lead to disputes including interference or opposition proceedings or litigation to determine rights to patentable subject matter. These disputes are often expensive and may result in our being unable to patent an innovation. The scope, enforceability and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. No consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims in biotechnology patents, so that even issued patents may later be modified or revoked by the relevant patent authorities or courts. These proceedings could be expensive, last several years and either prevent issuance of additional patents to us or result in a significant reduction in the scope or invalidation of our patents. Any limitation in claim scope could reduce our ability to negotiate future collaborative research and development agreements based on these patents. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a patent with similar claim scope in another country, and claim interpretation and infringement laws vary among countries, so we are unable to predict the extent of patent protection in any country. In addition to seeking the protection of patents and licenses, we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. If these agreements are not honored, we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, our trade secrets might otherwise become known or patented by our competitors. 24 We may need to obtain patent licenses from others in order to manufacture or sell our potential products and we may not be able to obtain these licenses on terms acceptable to us or at all. Other companies, universities and research institutions may obtain patents that could limit our ability to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our products or impair our competitive position. As a result, we may need to obtain licenses from others before we could continue using, importing, manufacturing, marketing, or selling our products. We may not be able to obtain required licenses on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we may encounter significant delays in product development while we redesign potentially infringing products or methods or we may not be able to market our products at all. We do not have a license to an issued U.S. patent assigned to Stanford University and Columbia University, which may cover a process used to produce our potential products. We have been advised that an exclusive license has been previously granted to a third party, Centocor, under this patent. If our processes were found to be covered by either of these patents, we might need to obtain licenses or to significantly alter our processes or products. We might not be able to successfully alter our processes or products to avoid conflicts with these patents or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or at all. We do not have licenses to issued U.S. patents which may cover one of our development-stage products. If we successfully develop this product, we might need to obtain licenses to these patents to commercialize the product. If we need to obtain licenses to these patents, we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to gain market acceptance of our product candidates among the medical community would adversely affect any product revenue we may receive in the future. Even if approved, our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payers and the medical community. We may not achieve market acceptance even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and efficacy and we obtain the necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals. The degree of market acceptance of any product candidates that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: •establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; •cost-effectiveness of our product candidates; •their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; •reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; and •marketing and distribution support for our product candidates, including the efforts of our collaborators where they have marketing and distribution responsibilities. Physicians will not recommend our products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product as compared to conventional drug and other treatments. Even if we establish the clinical safety and efficacy of our product candidates, physicians may elect not to use our product for any number of other reasons, including whether the mode of administration of our products is effective for certain indications. Antibody products, including our product candidates as they would be used for certain disease indications, are typically administered by infusion or injection, which requires substantial cost and inconvenience to patients. Our product candidates, if successfully developed, may compete with a number of drugs and therapies that may be administered more easily. The failure of our product candidates to achieve significant market acceptance would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition. We face significant competition from entities who have substantially greater resources than we have, more experience in the commercialization and marketing of pharmaceuticals, superior product 25 development capabilities and superior personnel resources. Potential competitors in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies, specialized pharmaceutical companies and universities and other research institutions. These entities have developed and are developing human or humanized antibodies or other compounds for treating cancers or immunologic diseases that may compete with our products in development and technologies that may compete with our development products or antibody technologies. These competitors may succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our product candidates or technologies or that would render any future commercialized products or technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our product candidates and any future commercialized products may also face significant competition from both brand-name and generic manufacturers that could adversely affect any future sales of our products. If daclizumab were to be approved for the treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis, it would face competition from currently approved and marketed products, including interferon-beta agents, such as Biogen Idec's Avonex®, Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals' Betaseron®, Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation's (Novartis) Extavia® and EMD Serono Inc.'s Rebif®, a non-interferon immune modifier, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.'s Copaxone®, and a monoclonal antibody, Biogen Idec and Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s Tysabri®. Further competition could arise from drugs currently in development, including Merck Serono S.A.'s Movectro (oral cladribine), Novartis fingolimod and other monoclonal antibodies in development, such as Genzyme Corporation's Campath®, Genmab A/S and GlaxoSmithKline's Arzerra®, and Genentech, Inc. (Genentech) and Roche's ocrelizumab. If elotuzumab were to be approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma, it could face competition from currently approved and marketed products, including Celgene Corporation's Revlimid® and Thalomid® and Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s Velcade®. Further competition could arise from drugs currently in development, including Centocor, Inc.'s CNTO-328, Novartis' Panobinostat, Merck & Co., Inc.'s Vorinostat, Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s carfilzomib, Genentech and Seattle Genetics, Inc.'s dacetuzumab, Novartis and Xoma Ltd.'s lucatumumab, and Pfizer Inc.'s (Pfizer) CP-751871. If volociximab (M200) were to be approved for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer or ovarian cancer, it would face competition from a number of other anti-angiogenic agents in pre-clinical and clinical development, including antibody candidates such as Pfizer's CP-751,871, ImClone Systems Incorporated's (ImClone) Erbitux® and Novartis's ASA404, each of which are in more advanced stages of development than is volociximab. In addition, many other VEGF or VEGFR targeted agents are in advanced stage of development and many other anti-angiogenesis agents are in earlier stage of development, which could compete with volociximab should it be approved for marketing. If PDL192 were to be approved for the treatment of solid tumors, it would face competition from many agents that are used for solid tumors, such as ImClone's Erbitux®, Genentech's Avastin®, and other monoclonal antibodies and targeted agents in development which potentially modulate the TWEAK pathway, including Biogen Idec's anti-Tweak monoclonal antibody, BIIB023. If TRU-016 were to be approved for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, it would face competition from certain products that are used for such indication, such as Genentech's and Biogen Idec's Rituxan®, Genzyme Corporation's alemtuzumab and Genmab A/S and GlaxoSmithKline's Arzerra®. In addition, TRU-016 may face competition in the future from Celgene's Revlimid® or other drugs presently in development, if these agents are approved in the future for this indication. Any product that we or our collaborators succeed in developing and for which regulatory approval is obtained must then compete for market acceptance and market share. The relative speed with which we and our collaborators can develop products, complete the clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market compared to competitive companies 26 will affect market success. In addition, the amount of marketing, sales and other commercial resources and the effectiveness of these resources used with respect to a product will affect its marketing success. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. None of our current product candidates is approved for marketing and we do not expect any of our candidates to receive marketing approval in the next several years, if at all. The competitive environment for any of our product candidates which may be approved for marketing at the time of commercialization is highly speculative and uncertain, but we anticipate that such products would face substantial competition from marketed products and from product candidates in development, if approved. Changes in the U.S. and international health care industry, including regarding reimbursement rates, could adversely affect the commercial value of our development product candidates. The U.S. and international health care industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may significantly affect the purchasing practices and pricing of pharmaceuticals. The FDA and other health care policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. Cost containment measures, whether instituted by health care providers or imposed by government health administration regulators or new regulations, could result in greater selectivity in the purchase of drugs. As a result, third-party payers may challenge the price and cost effectiveness of our products. In addition, in many major markets outside the United States, pricing approval is required before sales may commence. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of approved health care products. We may not be able to obtain or maintain our desired price for any products we develop. Any product we introduce may not be considered cost effective relative to alternative therapies. As a result, adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to obtain or maintain prices sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development, should any of our development products be approved for marketing. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices, reduced reimbursement levels and diminished markets for our development products. These factors will also affect the products that are marketed by our collaborators and licensees. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and our business could suffer. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for our products. Even if the FDA grants us marketing approval for a product, the FDA may impose post-marketing requirements, such as: •labeling and advertising requirements, restrictions or limitations, such as the inclusion of warnings, precautions, contra-indications or use limitations that could have a material impact on the future profitability of our product candidates; •adverse event reporting; •testing and surveillance to monitor our product candidates and their continued compliance with regulatory requirements; and •inspection of products and manufacturing operations and, if any inspection reveals that the product or operation is not in compliance, prohibiting the sale of all products, suspending manufacturing or withdrawing market clearance. 27 The discovery of previously unknown problems with our product candidates, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions of the products, including withdrawal from manufacture. Additionally, certain material changes affecting an approved product such as manufacturing changes or additional labeling claims are subject to further FDA review and approval. The FDA may revisit and change its prior determination with regard to the safety or efficacy of our products and withdraw any required approvals after we obtain them. Even prior to any formal regulatory action requiring labeling changes or affecting manufacturing, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our future products if concerns about their safety and efficacy develop. As part of the regulatory approval process, we or our contractors must demonstrate the ability to manufacture the pharmaceutical product to be approved. Accordingly, the manufacturing process and quality control procedures are required to comply with the applicable FDA Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations and other regulatory requirements. Good manufacturing practice regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities must pass an inspection by the FDA before initiating commercial manufacturing of any product. Pharmaceutical product manufacturing establishments are also subject to inspections by state and local authorities as well as inspections by authorities of other countries. To supply pharmaceutical products for use in the United States, foreign manufacturing establishments must comply with these FDA approved guidelines. These foreign manufacturing establishments are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA or by corresponding regulatory agencies in these countries under reciprocal agreements with the FDA. The FDA enforces post-marketing regulatory requirements, such as cGMP requirements, through periodic unannounced inspections. Failure to pass an inspection could disrupt, delay or shut down our manufacturing operations. Although we do not have currently marketed products, the foregoing considerations would be important to our future selection of contract manufacturers. Our collaborators, licensees and we also are subject to foreign regulatory requirements regarding the manufacture, development, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and, if the particular product is manufactured in the United States, FDA and other U.S. export provisions. These requirements vary widely in different countries. Difficulties or unanticipated costs or price controls may be encountered by us or our licensees or marketing collaborators in our respective efforts to secure necessary governmental approvals. This could delay or prevent us, our licensees or our marketing collaborators from marketing potential pharmaceutical products. Further, regulatory approvals may be withdrawn if we do not comply with regulatory standards or if problems with our products occur. In addition, under a Biologics License Application (BLA), the manufacturer continues to be subject to facility inspection and the applicant must assume responsibility for compliance with applicable pharmaceutical product and establishment standards. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may be subject to sanctions, including: •warning letters; •clinical holds; •product recalls or seizures; •changes to advertising; •injunctions; •refusal of the FDA to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approval applications; 28 •total or partial suspension of product manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales; •civil penalties; •withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and •criminal prosecutions. We rely on sole source, third parties to manufacture our products. We do not have the capability to manufacture any of our development-stage products. We rely upon third parties, including our collaborators, for our manufacturing requirements. We are in the process of transferring the manufacture of several of our product candidates to other third parties. If we experience difficulties in the transition process, or if we experience supply problems with our manufacturing partners, there may not be sufficient supplies of our development-stage products for us to meet clinical trial demand, in which case our operations and results could suffer. In addition, routine failures in the manufacturing process may lead to increased expenses and result in unforeseen delays in the progress of our clinical studies. Our products must be manufactured in facilities that comply with FDA and other regulations, and the process for qualifying and obtaining approval for a manufacturing facility is time-consuming. The manufacturing facilities on which we rely will be subject to ongoing, periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and state agencies to ensure compliance with good manufacturing practices and other requirements. We make all reasonable efforts to periodically audit these facilities to evaluate the GMP compliance status of our manufacturing partners. However, any actions taken by Regulatory Agencies with our manufacturing partners due to non-compliance (such as warning letters, temporary or permanent closures, whether or not related to the manufacturing or testing of our products) could lead to unforeseen delays in the progress of our clinical studies. If our relationship with any of our collaborators were to terminate unexpectedly or on short notice, our ability to meet clinical trial demand for our development-stage products could be adversely affected while we qualify a new manufacturer for that product and our operations and future results could suffer. In addition, we would need to expend a significant amount of time and incur significant costs to qualify a new manufacturer and transfer technology to the new manufacturer, which would also adversely affect our results of operations. Product supply interruptions, whether as a result of regulatory action or the termination of a relationship with a manufacturer, could significantly delay clinical development of our potential products, reduce third-party or clinical researcher interest and support of proposed clinical trials, and possibly delay commercialization and sales of these products. Our ability to file for, and to obtain, regulatory approvals for our products, as well as the timing of such filings, will depend on the abilities of the contract manufacturers we engage. We or our contract manufacturers may encounter problems with the following: •development of advanced manufacturing procedures, process controls and scalability of our manufacturing processes; •production costs and yields; •quality control and assurance; •availability of qualified personnel; •availability of raw materials; •adequate training of new and existing personnel; •ongoing compliance with standard operating procedures; 29 •ongoing compliance with applicable regulations; •production costs; and •development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturing changes may result in delays in obtaining regulatory approval or marketing for our products. When we make changes in the manufacturing process, we may be required to demonstrate to the FDA and corresponding foreign authorities that the changes have not caused the resulting drug material to differ significantly from the drug material previously produced (i.e., we must demonstrate comparability of the drug material produced using the original and changed manufacturing processes). Further, any significant manufacturing changes for the production of our product candidates could result in delays in development or regulatory approval or in the reduction or interruption of commercial sales of our product candidates. Our or our contract manufacturers' inability to maintain manufacturing operations in compliance with applicable regulations within our planned time and cost parameters could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made manufacturing changes and will make additional manufacturing changes for the production of our products currently in clinical development, including as we scale up manufacturing processes and develop appropriate pharmaceutical dosage forms for our products from clinical through to commercial scale and seek to increase manufacturing yields. These manufacturing changes or an inability to timely demonstrate comparability between materials manufactured before and after making manufacturing changes could result in delays in development or regulatory approvals or in reduction or interruption of commercial sales and could impair our competitive position. For example, we are in the process of transferring manufacturing technology and know how for elotuzumab and daclizumab from Genmab's Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, manufacturing facility, at which we formerly manufactured elotuzumab and daclizumab drug substance, to BMS and Biogen Idec, respectively. The successful transfer of manufacturing technology to a new manufacturing facility is a resource intensive and complex process and generally requires changes in the manufacturing process to adapt to the particular plant and equipment at the new manufacturing facility. Once we transfer elotuzumab and daclizumab manufacturing technology to BMS and Biogen Idec, we and our collaboration partners will need to demonstrate the comparability of drug substance manufactured at the new facility to the drug substance that had formerly been manufactured at Genmab's Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, manufacturing facility. Changes in the manufacturing process required to adapt to the particular plant and equipment at the new manufacturing facility may introduce variances or irregularities that may adversely impact the comparability of drug substances produced at the new facility. If drug substance manufactured by BMS or Biogen Idec at their facilities is not comparable to the drug substance manufactured at Genmab's Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, manufacturing facility, we and our collaboration partners may need to dedicate additional time and resources and incur additional expenses to resolve the causes of the incomparability. Also, because we expect to initiate the DECIDE phase 3 clinical trial of daclizumab in the second quarter of 2010 and we expect to make a decision about whether to move the elotuzumab program to phase 3 in the first half of 2011, we expect that some proportion of the patients dosed in these phase 3 trials would receive drug product made from drug substance produced at Genmab's Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, manufacturing facility with the remainder of patients receiving drug product made from drug substance manufactured at Biogen Idec's or BMS's manufacturing facilities. The FDA or other regulatory authorities could require as a condition to registration that additional patients be exposed to drug product made from drug substance manufactured at the new facility if too great a proportion of patients in these phase 3 trials receive drug product made from drug substance produced at Genmab's Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, manufacturing facility or otherwise require additional studies to address any concerns FDA or other regulatory authorities may have, which could delay the registration of daclizumab or elotuzumab. 30 We must comply with extensive government regulations and laws. We and our collaboration partners are subject to extensive regulation by federal government, state governments, and the foreign countries in which we conduct our business. In particular, we are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation as a developer of drug products. For example, the FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, research, manufacture, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, quality control, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotions, sale and distribution of biotechnology products. Our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We must rely on our contract manufacturers and third-party suppliers for regulatory compliance and adhering to the FDA's cGMP requirements. If these manufacturers or suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulations, including FDA pre-or post-approval inspections and cGMP requirements, then the FDA could sanction us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions or criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. Similarly, if the hospitals, physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. We expend a significant amount on compliance efforts and such expenses are unpredictable and may adversely affect our results. Changing laws, regulations and standards may also create uncertainty and increase insurance costs. We are committed to compliance and maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We may incur significant costs in order to comply with environmental regulations or to defend claims arising from accidents involving the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, discharge, handling and disposal of materials and wastes used in our operations. As a result, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and incur liabilities, which exceed our resources. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of the adverse effect on our business or the financial and other costs that might result from any new government requirements arising out of future legislative, administrative or judicial actions. 31 We may be subject to product liability claims, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover these claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products during research and development efforts or after commercialization results in adverse effects. This risk exists even with respect to any products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. While we maintain liability insurance for our products, it may not be sufficient to satisfy any or all liabilities that may arise. Also, adequate insurance coverage may not be available in the future at acceptable cost, if at all. We maintain product liability insurance for claims arising from the use of our product candidates in clinical trials prior to FDA approval at levels that we believe are appropriate for similarly situated companies in the biotechnology industry. However, we may not be able to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms for the use of our other product candidates and products in the future. Also, our insurance coverage and resources may not be sufficient to satisfy liability resulting from product liability claims, which could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. While we believe our product liability insurance is reasonable, we cannot assure you that this coverage will be adequate to protect us in the event of a claim. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to PDL or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from PDL. Under the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, we agreed to indemnify PDL from and after the Spin-off with respect to indebtedness, liabilities and obligations, other than PDL's convertible notes, that PDL will retain that do not relate to PDL's Royalty Business. Our ability to satisfy these indemnities, if called upon to do so, will depend upon the nature of any claim for indemnity and upon our future financial strength. In April 2009, we became aware of assertions from one of PDL's former commercial product distributors that it believes it should be reimbursed for certain amounts relating to sales rebates on the sale of the Busulfex® commercial product in Italy during the 2006 and 2007 fiscal periods. We believe these assertions are invalid and without merit. Under the terms of the indemnification provisions contained in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, we could be responsible for any amounts ultimately deemed due and payable to this distributor by PDL should these assertions be deemed valid. As any potential liability related to these assertions is not probable at this time, we have not recorded any liability relating to this matter on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. We are not aware of any other potential material indemnification obligations at this time, but any such indemnification obligations that may arise could be significant. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify PDL for any substantial obligations in the future. We must attract and retain highly skilled employees in order to succeed. To be successful, we must attract and retain qualified clinical, scientific and management personnel and we face significant competition for experienced personnel. If we do not succeed in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly at the management level, our business could be impaired. In connection with prior strategic reviews and asset sale processes, PDL and we eliminated a significant number of employment positions over the course of several restructurings and reductions in force. The Spin-off represented a further change and our employees may have concerns about our prospects as a stand-alone company, including our ability to maintain our independence. These prior restructurings and reductions in force and the Spin-off have created uncertainty for our employees and our employees may seek other employment, which could materially adversely affect our business. 32 On September 21, 2009, Biogen Idec, through a wholly owned subsidiary, launched an unsolicited tender offer to acquire the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, subject to a number of terms and conditions contained in the tender offer documents Biogen Idec filed with the SEC. Our Board of Directors unanimously recommended that the Company's stockholders reject Biogen Idec's tender offer and not tender their shares pursuant to Biogen Idec's tender offer. Biogen Idec's unsolicited tender offer expired without being consummated by Biogen Idec on December 16, 2009. As a result of the tender offer, several parties expressed an interest in the Company and we requested that our financial advisor, Centerview Partners, solicit additional third parties that may have an interest in a transaction that our Board would find in our stockholders' best interests. In addition, we continue to offer Biogen Idec the opportunity to engage in due diligence discussions to determine whether Biogen Idec would materially increase its prior offer to purchase all of our outstanding shares of common stock. Biogen Idec's unsolicited offer has created additional uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to attract new employees. We have put in place severance and compensation incentives in response to Biogen Idec's unsolicited offer in an effort to mitigate the number of voluntary terminations; however, these programs may not provide effective incentive to employees to stay with us. The uncertainly created by past events, including Biogen Idec's unsolicited tender offer, may also make the recruitment of key personnel more difficult, which would adversely affect our operations, particularly if we lose and need to replace key executives. We are particularly dependent on our executive officers, and we generally do not have employment agreements with specified terms with our executives. We are currently engaged in a search for a new chief medical officer. The failure to timely recruit a new chief medical officer could adversely impact the effectiveness of our research and development efforts. Also, we rely on our research, development and product operations staff, all of whom are valuable but the loss of any one of whom would not have a material adverse effect on the Company. We anticipate that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. Our business has experienced significant net losses and we expect to continue to incur additional net losses over the next several years as we continue our research and development activities and incur significant preclinical and clinical development costs. During the five years in the period ended December 31, 2009, we recognized a cumulative loss of $883.7 million. Since we or our collaborators or licensees may not successfully develop additional products, obtain required regulatory approvals, manufacture products at an acceptable cost or with appropriate quality, or successfully market such products with desired margins, our expenses may continue to exceed any revenues we may receive. Our commitment of resources to the continued development of our products will require significant additional funds for development. Our operating expenses also may increase if: •our earlier stage potential products move into later stage clinical development, which is generally a more expensive stage of development; •additional preclinical product candidates are selected for further clinical development; •we in-license or otherwise acquire additional products; •we pursue clinical development of our potential products in new indications; •we increase the number of patents we are prosecuting or otherwise expend additional resources on patent prosecution, defense or analyses; and •we invest in research or acquire additional technologies or businesses. 33 In the absence of substantial licensing, milestone and other revenues from third-party collaborators, royalties on sales of products licensed under our intellectual property rights, future revenues from our products in development or other sources of revenues, we will continue to incur operating losses and will likely require additional capital to fully execute our business strategy. The likelihood of reaching, and time required to reach, sustained profitability are highly uncertain. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Although we expect that we will have sufficient cash to fund our operations and working capital requirements to approximately the end of 2012 based on current operating plans, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to: •fund our research and development programs; •develop and commercialize our product candidates; •respond to competitive pressures; and •acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Our future capital needs depend on many factors, including: •the scope, duration and expenditures associated with our research and development programs; •continued scientific progress in these programs; •the costs and expenses related to, and the consequences of, potential licensing or acquisition transactions, if any; •competing technological developments; •our proprietary patent position, if any, in our product candidates; •our facilities expenses, which will vary depending on the time and terms of any facility sublease we may enter into; and •the regulatory approval process for our product candidates. We may seek to raise necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional collaborations and licensing arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs and reduce overall overhead expenses. These actions may reduce the market price of our common stock. We may obtain future financing through the issuance of debt or equity, which may have an adverse effect on our stockholders or may otherwise adversely affect our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of liquidation. In such event, there is a possibility that once all senior claims are settled, there may be no assets remaining to pay out to the holders of common stock. In addition, if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, whether through private placements or public offerings, such an issuance would dilute ownership of current stockholders in us. The terms of debt securities may also impose restrictions on our operations, which may include limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to pay dividends on or repurchase our capital 34 stock, or to make certain acquisitions or investments. In addition, we may be subject to covenants requiring us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios, and our ability to satisfy such covenants may be affected by events outside of our control. We have limited history operating as an independent company upon which you can evaluate us. We have a limited operating history as a stand-alone entity. While our Biotechnology Business had constituted a substantial part of the historic operations of PDL, we had not operated as a stand-alone company without the Royalty Business prior to the Spin-off. As an independent company, our ability to satisfy our obligations and achieve profitability will be solely dependent upon the future performance of our Biotechnology Business, and we are not able to rely upon the capital resources and cash flows of the Royalty Business, which remained with PDL. We may not be able to successfully implement the changes necessary to operate independently, and we may incur additional costs operating independently, which would have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows and may not reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Our historical financial information included in this Annual Report for periods prior to 2009 does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations or future cash flows. This is primarily a result of the following factors: •prior to our separation from PDL on December 18, 2008, our business was operated by PDL as part of its broader corporate organization and we did not operate as a stand-alone company; •certain general administrative functions were performed by PDL for the combined entity. Our historical consolidated financial statements reflect allocations of costs for services shared with PDL. These allocations may differ from the costs we will incur for these services as an independent company; •our historical financial statements include the operation of our manufacturing facility. The facility was sold in the first quarter of 2008; •during 2007, 2008 and 2009, we substantially reduced the number of employees of the Biotechnology Business; and •after the completion of the Spin-off from PDL, the cost of capital for our business may be higher than PDL's cost of capital prior to our separation because PDL's credit ratings were better than what we currently anticipate ours will be in the foreseeable future. Our operating expenses and results and any future revenue likely will fluctuate in future periods. Our revenues and expenses may be unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to, among other things, the timing and the unpredictable nature of clinical trial, manufacturing and related expenses, including payments owed by us and to us under collaborative agreements for reimbursement of expenses, and future milestone revenues or expenses under collaborative agreements. In addition, the recognition of clinical trial and other expenses that we otherwise would recognize over a period of time under applicable accounting principles may be accelerated in certain circumstances. In such a case, it may cause our expenses during that period to be higher than they otherwise would have been had the circumstances not occurred. For example, if we terminate a clinical trial for which we paid non-refundable upfront fees to a clinical research organization and in which we did not accrue all 35 of the patient costs, the recognition of the expense associated with those fees that we were recognizing as we accrued patient costs would be accelerated and recognized in the period in which the termination occurred. In addition, we may recognize restructuring charges or asset impairment charges in future periods that could materially impact our total operating expenses. For example, in 2009, we recognized restructuring charges of $24.3 million related to one of the two buildings that we currently lease in Redwood City, California. Since we are required to review and update our restructuring estimates each quarter, in future periods we could recognize unfavorable changes in estimates related to our current lease-related restructuring liability that could be material. In addition, as disclosed in our Critical Accounting Policies within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we could recognize substantial asset impairment charges if we were to sublease both of our currently leased buildings in Redwood City for rates that are not significantly in excess of our costs. The market price for our shares may fluctuate widely. Market prices for securities of biotechnology companies have been highly volatile, and we expect such volatility to continue for the foreseeable future, so that investment in our securities involves substantial risk. For example, during the period from January 1, 2009 to February 7, 2010, our common stock closed as high as $18.05 per share and as low as $6.06 per share. Additionally, the stock market from time to time has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following are some of the factors that may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: •results of clinical trials; •approval or introduction of competing products and technologies; •developments or disputes as to patent or other proprietary rights; •failures or unexpected delays in timelines for our potential products in development, including the obtaining of regulatory approvals; •delays in manufacturing or clinical trial plans; •fluctuations in our operating results; •announcements by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies; •initiation, termination or modification of agreements with our collaborators or disputes or disagreements with collaborators; •acquisition of rights to develop and potentially commercialize products through in-licensing agreements and other means; •loss of key personnel; •litigation or the threat of litigation; •public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us; •public announcements of offers to acquire the Company and potential termination or expiration of such offers; •sales of our common stock held by insiders; and •comments and expectations of results made by securities analysts or investors. If any of these factors causes us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, or if adverse conditions prevail or are perceived to prevail with respect to our business, the price of the 36 common stock would likely drop significantly. A significant drop in the price of a company's common stock often leads to the filing of securities class action litigation against the Company. This type of litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Your percentage ownership in Facet Biotech may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in Facet Biotech may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees as well as other equity instruments that may be issues in the future such as debt and equity financing. Under the Facet Biotech 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan), which provides for the grant of equity- based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights and other equity-based awards, to our directors, officers and other employees, advisors and consultants, we have reserved a total of 3.5 million shares of our common stock for issuance. As of December 31, 2009, 3.0 million shares were subject to issuance under outstanding stock option and restricted stock awards, and we expect to continue to grant additional equity-based awards to our employees and directors in the future. Our stockholder rights plan and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. The stockholder rights plan, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law are intended to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with us and allow our Board of Directors the opportunity to consider alternative proposals in the interest of maximizing stockholder value. However, the stockholder rights plan and such provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among others: •no right of our stockholders to act by written consent; •procedures regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; •the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and •no stockholder rights to call a special stockholders meeting. In addition, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), including Section 203 of the DGCL, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of the Company. Section 203 of the DGCL provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers and employee plans) of a company. The above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of the Company, including in transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. We can give no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation that may be brought seeking to invalidate or enjoin our takeover defenses or provisions of Delaware law. 37 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 