Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our businessWe compete with many others in the market for clinical documentation solutions which may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and an inability to maintain or increase our market share.We compete with other outsourced clinical documentation solutions companies in a highly fragmented market that includes national, regional and local service providers, as well as service providers with global operations. These companies have services that are similar to ours, and certain of these companies are substantially larger or have significantly greater financial resources than we do. We also compete with the in-house medical transcription staffs of our customers and potential customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against our competitors or timely implement new products and services. Many of our competitors attempt to differentiate themselves by offering lower priced alternatives to our outsourced medical transcription services and customers could elect to utilize less comprehensive solutions than the ones we offer due to the lower costs of those competitive products. Some competitors may even be willing to accept less profitable business in order to grow revenue. Increased competition and cost pressures affecting the healthcare markets in general may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and the inability to maintain or increase our market share.Our business is dependent upon the continued demand for transcription services. If EHR companies produce alternatives to medical transcription that reduce the need for transcription, the demand for our solutions could be reduced.EHR companies' solutions for the collection of clinical data typically require physicians to directly enter and organize patient information through “point-and-click” templates which attempt to reduce or eliminate the need for transcription. A second alternative to conventional transcription involves a physician dictating a record of patient encounters and receiving a speech-recognized draft of their dictation, which the physician can self-edit. There is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, these solutions for the creation of electronic clinical documentation. In the event that these and other solutions are successful and gain wide acceptance, the demand for our solutions could be reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth is dependent on the willingness of new customers to outsource and adopt our technology platforms.We plan to grow, in part, by capitalizing on perceived market opportunities to provide our services to new customers. These new customers must be willing to outsource functions which may otherwise have been performed within their organizations, adopt new technologies and incur the time and expense needed to integrate those technologies into their existing systems. For example, the up-front cost and time involved in changing medical transcription providers or in converting from an in-house medical transcription department to an outsourced provider may be significant. Many customers may prefer to remain with their current provider or keep their transcription in-house rather than invest the time and resources required for the implementation of a new system. Also, as the maintenance of accurate medical records is a critical element of a healthcare provider's ability to deliver quality care to its patients and to receive proper and timely reimbursement for the services it renders, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource or change providers of such an important function.Our success will depend on our ability to support existing technologies, as well as to adopt and integrate new technology into our workflow platforms.Our ability to remain competitive in the clinical documentation industry is based, in part, on our ability to develop or acquire, utilize and support technology in the services and solutions that we provide to our customers. As our customers advance technologically, we must be able to effectively integrate our solutions with their systems and provide advanced data collection technology. We also may need to develop or acquire technologies to provide service systems comparable to those of our competitors as they develop new technology. If we are unable to effectively develop or acquire and integrate new technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors. In addition, if the cost of developing or acquiring and integrating new technologies is high, we may not realize our expected return on investment.12Speech recognition and natural language understanding technologies may not achieve widespread acceptance, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Our business is primarily focused on, and we continue to invest heavily in, the development and marketing of speech recognition and natural language understanding technologies. The market for such technologies is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Our ability to increase revenue in the future depends in large measure on the acceptance of these technologies in general and our products in particular. The continued development of the market for our current and future speech understanding solutions will also depend on: •physician, hospital and other healthcare provider demand for speech-enabled applications; and•continuous improvement in speech recognition and natural language understanding technology. Licensing of our products would be harmed if the market for these technologies does not continue to develop or develops slower than we expect, and, consequently, our business could be harmed. Technological innovations in the markets that we serve may create alternatives to our products and result in reduced sales.Technological innovations to which our current and potential customers might have access could reduce or eliminate their need for our products. New or other disruptive technology that reduces or eliminates the use of one or more of our products could negatively impact the sale of these products. Our failure to develop, introduce or enhance products able to compete with new technologies in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Many of our customer contracts are terminable at will by our customers, and our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon the ability to retain customers.Many of our contracts can be terminated at will by our customers. If a significant number of our customers were to cancel or materially change their commitments with us, we could have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We must, therefore, engage in continual operational support and sales efforts to maintain revenue stability and future growth with these customers. If a significant number of our customers terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business is not obtained to replace the business which was lost.In particular, many of MultiModal's speech recognition customers are direct competitors of our medical transcription business and may feel threatened by our acquisition of MultiModal. We have had discussions with these customers and vendors in order to retain their business and services, respectively. If certain customers or vendors terminate their contracts with us, our speech recognition business could be materially impacted in a negative way. Customer retention is largely dependent on providing quality service at competitive prices. Customer retention may be impacted by events outside of our control, such as changes in customer ownership, management, financial condition and competitors' sales efforts. If we experience a higher than expected rate of customer attrition the resulting loss of business could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition.Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy or to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and our debt obligations include restrictive covenants which may restrict our operations or otherwise adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $296.5 million of indebtedness outstanding, consisting of $200.0 million of term loan debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, $85.0 million of Senior Subordinated Notes and other indebtedness consisting of capital leases and borrowings under other credit facilities, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. In September 2011, we amended the Senior Secured Credit Facility to, among other things, (i) permit repurchases of our outstanding common stock in an aggregate amount not to exceed $25.0 million and (ii) add an accordion feature that will allow for additional borrowing capacity of up to $50.0 million in the form of additional revolving credit commitments or incremental term loans, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. As December 31, 2011, the Company had not met these conditions; thus, there were no available 13borrowings under the accordion or the revolving credit facility. For the years 2011 through 2014, assuming no change in our indebtedness, we will have average, annual payment obligations of approximately $20.0 million for the principal amount of our indebtedness. Our interest expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $29.3 million. Our variable-rate indebtedness bears interest at LIBOR plus 5.50% with a LIBOR floor of 1.75%. Because the LIBOR floor is currently in effect, a 1.25% increase in LIBOR above current LIBOR levels would not increase our effective interest rate. At December 31, 2011, a 1.00% increase in the interest rate above this floor would impact our interest expense by approximately $2.0 million. This indebtedness could have important negative consequences to our business, including:•increasing the difficulty of our ability to make payments on our outstanding debt;•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions because our debt payment obligations may limit our ability to use our cash to respond to or defend against changes in the industry or the economy;•requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;•limiting our ability to pursue our growth strategy, including restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; and•placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged and may be better able to use their cash flow to fund competitive responses to changing industry, market or economic conditions.In addition, under our debt financing agreements, we must abide by certain financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, a maximum total leverage ratio and a maximum consolidated senior leverage ratio. Upon a breach of any of the covenants in our debt financing agreements, the lenders could declare us to be in default, require any outstanding borrowings to be immediately due and payable, and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions.We incorporate open source software into our workflow solutions platforms and other software solutions. Open source software is accessible, usable and modifiable by anyone, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. Under certain conditions, the use of some open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. The circumstances under which our use of open source code would compel us to offer derivative code at no cost are subject to varying judicial interpretations, and we cannot guarantee that a court would not require certain of our core technology be made available as open source code. The use of such open source code may also ultimately require us to take remedial action, such as replacing certain code used in our products, paying a royalty to use some open source code, making certain proprietary source code available to others or discontinuing certain products, any of which may divert resources away from our development efforts.We may also find that we need to incorporate certain proprietary third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products in the future. Licenses to relevant third-party technologies may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. Such delays could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.14Speech software products and services are not 100% accurate, and we could be subject to claims related to the performance of our products and services. Any claims, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in significant costs and could damage our reputation. Speech recognition and natural language understanding technologies, including our own, are not accurate in every instance. Our customers, including hospital systems and medical transcription service organizations, use our products to provide important clinical documentation services to their customers. Any misrecognition of voice commands in connection with these services could result in claims against our customers or us for losses incurred. Although our contracts usually contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to such liability claims, a claim brought against us based on misrecognition, even if unsuccessful, could be time-consuming, divert management's attention from our business operations, result in costly litigation and harm our reputation. If any such claim is successful, we could be exposed to an award of substantial damages and our reputation could be harmed greatly. Moreover, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could limit the enforceability of limitations of liability, disclaimers of warranty, or other protective provisions contained in many, but not all, of our contracts.Our technology may have defects, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to customers and claims against us. Complex software products such as those used by us may contain errors or defects. Defects in the solutions that are developed for our use could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about our services. Customers who are not satisfied with our products or services due to technological errors or defects may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, business, financial results and competitive position. Third-party intellectual property rights may limit the development and protection of our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to: obtain patent protection for our products and processes; preserve our trade secrets and propriety technology; and operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third-parties. The speech recognition and natural language understanding industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the speech recognition and natural language understanding industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Certain competitors and potential competitors of ours may have obtained patents which purport to cover the application of certain technologies that could be used for our products. We have not been a party to any suits asserting patent infringement against us. In addition, international patents may not be interpreted in the same manner as any counterpart United States patent. Costly and protracted litigation may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights. We may have to engage in time-consuming and costly litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or to determine the proprietary rights of third-parties and others. In addition, we may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation, or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. Defending and prosecuting intellectual property suits, United States Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time-consuming. We may be required to litigate further to: •enforce assignment and/or license agreements against our third-party developers;•enforce our issued patents;•protect our trade secrets or know-how;•enforce non-compete agreements; or•determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. 15Any litigation or interference proceedings may result in substantial expense and significant diversion of effort by technical and management personnel. If the results of such litigation or interference proceedings are adverse to us, then the results may: •require us to seek licenses from third-parties;•prevent us from selling our products in certain markets or at all;•subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties; or•require us to modify or remove our products from the market. Although patent and intellectual property disputes are often settled through licensing and similar arrangements, costs associated with such arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from further developing and/or selling our products. This could result in substantial harm to our business and our business may not be able to sustain such a loss. Our ability to expand our business depends on our ability to effectively manage our domestic and offshore production capacity, which we may not be able to do.Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively manage our domestic and offshore production capacity, including our ability to attract and retain qualified MTs and MEs, who can provide accurate medical transcription. We must also effectively manage our offshore transcription labor pool, which is currently located in India. If the productivity of our Indian employees does not outpace any increase in wages and other costs, our profits could suffer. Because medical transcription is a skilled position in which experience is valuable, we require that our MTs and MEs have substantial experience or receive substantial training before being hired. Competition may force us to increase the compensation and benefits paid to our MTs and MEs, which could reduce our operating margins and profitability. If we fail to comply with contractual obligations and applicable laws and regulations governing the handling of patient identifiable medical information, we could suffer material losses or be adversely affected by exposure to material penalties and liabilities.As part of the operation of our business, our customers provide us with certain patient-identifiable medical information. Although many regulatory and governmental requirements do not directly apply to our operations, we and our hospital and other healthcare provider customers must comply with a variety of requirements related to the handling of patient information, including laws and regulations protecting the privacy, confidentiality and security of PHI. Most of our customers are covered entities under HIPAA, and, in many of our relationships, we function as a business associate. The provisions of HIPAA require our customers to have business associate agreements with us under which we are required to appropriately safeguard the PHI we create or receive on their behalf. Further, we and our customers are required to comply with HIPAA security regulations that require us and them to implement certain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of EPHI. We are required by regulation and contract to protect the security of EPHI that we create, receive, maintain or transmit for our customers consistent with these regulations. To comply with our regulatory and contractual obligations, we may have to reorganize processes and invest in new technologies. We also are required to train personnel regarding HIPAA requirements. If we, or any of our MTs, MEs or subcontractors, are unable to maintain the privacy, confidentiality and security of the PHI that is entrusted to us, we and/or our customers could be subject to civil and criminal fines and sanctions and we could be found to have breached our contracts with our customers. Under the HITECH Act, we are directly subject to HIPAA's criminal and civil penalties for breaches of our privacy and security obligations. In addition, the HITECH Act contains security breach notification requirements. The direct applicability of the HIPAA privacy and security provisions and compliance with the notification requirements requires us to incur additional costs and may restrict our business operations. 16Security and privacy breaches in our systems may damage customer relations and inhibit our growth.The uninterrupted operation of our hosted solutions and the confidentiality and security of third-party information is critical to our business. Any failures or perceived failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to protect, or our customers perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic information, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: •cause our customers to lose confidence in our solutions;•harm our reputation;•expose us to liability; and•increase our expenses from potential remediation costs. While we believe that we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. Our business depends on the reliable and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, internet applications and data centers.A substantial portion of our business involves the transfer of large amounts of data to and from our workflow platforms. These workflow platforms, and their underlying technologies, are designed to operate and to be accessible by our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Network and information systems, the internet and other technologies are critical to our business activities. We have periodically experienced short-term outages with our workflow platforms that have not significantly disrupted our business. However, a long-term outage could adversely affect our ability to provide service to our customers. We also perform data center and/or hosting services for certain customers, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. Failure of public power and backup generators, impairment of telecommunications lines, a "concerted denial-of-service cyber attack," damage (environmental, accidental, intentional or pandemic) to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers, the customer data contained therein and/or the personnel trained to operate such facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact customers who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and/or customer support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new customers, result in revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our customers and us and increase insurance and other operating costs. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions will depend on successfully integrating the acquired businesses. Our prior acquisitions required, and our recently completed acquisitions continue to require, substantial integration and management efforts and we expect future acquisitions to require similar efforts. Acquisitions of this nature involve a number of risks, including: •difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; •potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; •potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of our finance, accounting and product distribution systems; •difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; •potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; •unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; 17•management of geographically remote business units both in the United States and internationally; •impairment of relationships with partners and customers; •assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; •accurate projection of revenue plans of the acquired entity in the due diligence process; •customers delaying purchases of our products pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; •entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited experience; and •potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. As a result of these and other risks, if we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could seriously harm our business.Charges to earnings as a result of our acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results in the foreseeable future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., we record the market value of our common stock or other form of consideration issued in connection with an acquisition as the cost of acquiring the company or business. We have allocated that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including various identifiable intangible assets such as acquired technology, acquired trade names and acquired customer relationships based on their respective fair values. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: •costs incurred to combine the operations of businesses we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; •impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; •amortization of intangible assets acquired; •a reduction in the useful lives of intangible asset acquired;•identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; •charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; •charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and •charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. Our intangible assets other than goodwill are generally amortized over a two to twenty year period. Goodwill and certain intangible assets with indefinite lives, are not subject to amortization but are subject to an impairment analysis, at least annually, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value exceeds its implied fair value. As of December 31, 2011, we had identified intangible assets of approximately $173.3 million, net of accumulated amortization, and goodwill of approximately $161.9 million. 18Recent legislation and possible negative publicity may impede our ability to utilize offshore production capabilities.Certain state laws restrict the transmission of personally identifiable information regarding a U.S. resident to any foreign affiliate, subcontractor or unaffiliated third party without adequate privacy protections or without providing notice of the transmission and an opportunity to opt out. Some of the laws require patient consent. These laws impose liability on healthcare businesses arising from the improper sharing or other misuse of personally identifiable information. Some laws create a private civil cause of action that allow an injured party to recover damages sustained as a result of a violation of the law. A number of states have also considered, or are in the process of considering, prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other information to individuals or entities located outside of the U.S. Further, as a result of concerns regarding the possible misuse of personally identifiable information, some of our customers have contractually limited our ability to use MTs and MEs located outside of the U.S. The effect of these laws would limit our ability to utilize our lower-cost offshore production facilities for affected customers, which could adversely affect our operating margins. Any change in legislation, regulation or market practices in the United States affecting healthcare or healthcare insurance may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.Over the past twenty years, the U.S. healthcare industry has experienced a variety of regulatory and market driven changes to how it is operated and funded. Further changes, whether by government policy shift, insurance company changes or otherwise, may happen, and any such changes may adversely affect the U.S. healthcare information and services market. As business process outsourcing and “off-shoring” have grown in recent years, concerns have also grown about the impact of these phenomena on jobs in the United States. These concerns could drive government policy in a way which is disadvantageous to us. Further, if government regulation or market practices leads to fewer individuals seeking medical treatment, we could experience a decline in our processing volumes. Laws and regulations governing international operations may require us to develop and implement costly compliance programs the failure to comply with such laws may result in substantial penalties. As we have operations outside of the United States, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to international business operations. The creation and implementation of international business practices compliance programs is costly and such programs are difficult to enforce, particularly where reliance on third parties is required. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced primarily by the U.S. Department of Justice. The SEC is involved with enforcement of the books and records provisions of the FCPA. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial penalties, including suspension or debarment from government contracting. Violation of the FCPA can result in significant civil and criminal penalties. Indictment alone under the FCPA can lead to suspension of the right to do business with the U.S. government until the pending claims are resolved. Conviction of a violation of the FCPA can result in long term disqualification as a government contractor. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of our failure to satisfy any of our obligations under laws governing international business practices would have a negative impact on our operations and harm our reputation and ability to procure government contracts. The SEC also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on United States exchanges for violations of the FCPA's accounting provisions.19Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions in India.A significant portion of our operations is located in India. Multiple factors relating to our Indian operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These factors include: •changes in political, regulatory, legal or economic conditions;•governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and foreign investments;•civil disturbances, including terrorism or war;•political instability;•public health emergencies;•changes in employment practices and labor standards;•local business and cultural factors that differ from our customary standards and practices; and•changes in tax laws. In addition, the Indian economy may differ favorably or unfavorably from other economies in several respects, including the growth rate of GDP, the rate of inflation, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments position. The Indian government has traditionally exercised and continues to exercise a significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. Further actions or changes in policy, including taxation, of the Indian central government or the respective Indian state and territory governments could have a significant effect on the Indian economy, which could adversely affect private sector companies, market conditions, and the success of our operations. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations require that any international transactions involving associated enterprises are undertaken at an arm's length price. Applicable income tax authorities review our tax returns and if they determine that the transfer prices we have applied are not appropriate, we may incur increased tax liabilities, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby materially reducing our profitability and cash flows. Indian tax authorities reviewed our transfer pricing practices at Spheris India Pvt. Ltd. for tax years ended March 2004 and 2005, prior to our ownership of Spheris, and concluded that the transfer price was not at arms' length. They assessed additional taxes for these years, which we have paid or fully reserved. However, we continue to dispute this assessment and the matter is currently under appeal.We are exposed to fluctuations of the value of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar, which could adversely affect our operations.Although our accounts are prepared in U.S. dollars, much of our operations are carried out in India with payments to staff and suppliers made in Indian rupees. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially and could fluctuate in the future. Movements in the rate of exchange between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar could result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our equity. We are highly dependent on certain key personnel and the loss of any or all of these key personnel may have an adverse impact upon future performance.Our operations and future success are dependent upon the existence and expertise in this sector of certain key personnel. The loss of services of any of these individuals for any reason or our inability to attract suitable replacements would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our business and operations.20As a publicly traded company, we are subject to certain regulatory compliance requirements, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our reputation and our business could be harmed.As a publicly traded company in the U.S., our ongoing compliance with various rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, will increase our legal and finance compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and requirements may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time. Implementing these changes may take a significant amount of time and may require specific compliance training of our personnel. For example, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that our management report on, and our independent auditors attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports filed with the SEC. Section 404 compliance may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. If in the future our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. As a result, investor perceptions of our company may suffer, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Irrespective of compliance with these rules and regulations, including the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our business and reputation. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting, or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limitedAs of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $101 million of federal net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which will begin to expire in 2025 if not utilized, and approximately $243 million of state NOL's. Under the relevant federal and state tax provisions currently in effect, certain substantial cumulative changes in our ownership may further limit the amount of NOL carryforwards that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes limitations on a company's ability to use NOL carryforwards if it is determined that a company had a change in ownership under certain circumstances within a three-year testing period. We believe that, as a result of future issuances of our capital stock, it is possible that such an ownership change may occur. If we experience an ownership change, our ability to use our United States federal and state NOL carryforwards in any future periods may be restricted. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOL carryforwards, we will pay more taxes than if we were able to utilize such NOL carryforwards fully. As a result, any inability to use our NOL carryforwards could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Impairment of our intangible assets could result in significant charges that would adversely impact our future operating results. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets are customer relationships and acquired technology. Our identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. We assess the potential impairment of intangible assets on at least an annual basis, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets, include the following: •significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; •significant changes in the manner of or use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; •significant negative industry or economic trends; •significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; •changes in our organization or management reporting structure that could result in additional reporting units, which may require alternative methods of estimating fair values or greater disaggregation or aggregation in our analysis by reporting unit; and •a decline in our market capitalization below net book value. 21Future adverse changes in these or other unforeseeable factors could result in an impairment charge that would impact our results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. Our largest stockholder may exercise significant control over our company.Affiliates of SAC PCG, our largest stockholder, beneficially owns in the aggregate shares representing approximately 35% of our outstanding capital stock as of December 31, 2011. Furthermore, we have entered into a Stockholders Agreement with affiliates of SAC PCG pursuant to which they have the right to nominate to our board three, two or one directors for so long as they own at least 20%, 10% or 5% of our voting power, respectively. This concentration of ownership of our shares and the Stockholders Agreement could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs, or other purchases of shares of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our stock price. The deterioration of the credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. We rely on our credit facilities to fund a portion of our working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. If any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of working capital requirements and other general corporate purposes. In the event that we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. Our inability to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility, and the volatility of stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations because of general market conditions and because of factors specifically related to our businesses. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include: •market conditions affecting our customers' businesses, including the level of mergers and acquisitions activity;•the loss of any major customers or the acquisition of new customers for our services;•announcements of new services or functions by us or our competitors;•actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;•rumors relating to us or our competitors;•actions of stockholders, including sales of shares by our directors and executive officers;•additions or departures of key personnel; and•developments concerning current or future strategic alliances or acquisitions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute existing stockholders.As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. We may issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly, depending on the terms of the acquisition. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which may place additional restrictions on the ability to operate the business. 22Provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management.Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include: •a classified board of directors;•limitations on the removal of directors;•advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations;•the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings;•the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and•the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then-current market price for our common stock. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. The payment of any future dividends will be determined by our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities, which could adversely affect our business or prospects.Our certificate of incorporation provides that we will renounce any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to (i) members of our board of directors who are not our employees, (ii) their respective employers and (iii) affiliates of the foregoing (other than us and our subsidiaries), other than opportunities expressly presented to such directors solely in their capacity as our director. This provision will apply even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, no such person will be liable to us for breach of any fiduciary duty, as a director or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires any such business opportunity, directs any such business opportunity to another person or fails to present any such business opportunity, or information regarding any such business opportunity. None of such persons or entities will have any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us or any of our subsidiaries.23For example, affiliates of our non-employee directors may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities such as acquisition opportunities and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested or advise, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunities. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to such persons or entities could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such persons or entities for their own benefit rather than for ours.Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments None. 