ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We intend to expand through the building of new facilities or the acquisition of facilities or businesses and may have difficulties integrating these future operations or acquisitions or may not realize anticipated benefits. Our growth strategy involves expanding our Consumer Products business in both size and geographic reach. To accomplish this, we may build converting and papermaking facilities, pursue acquisitions of new facilities or businesses, or both. Building new, or acquiring and modifying existing, manufacturing facilities entails numerous risks, including difficulties in completing such projects on time due to construction and permitting issues, financing the project, completing the project within budget and integrating new operations and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities, difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, services and personnel of the acquired business, and personnel turnover. Large construction projects or acquisitions can result in a decrease in our cash or an increase in our indebtedness and also may limit our ability to access additional capital when needed and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to identify suitable building locations or acquisition targets. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings from construction projects or acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. Any inability by us to integrate and manage any new or acquired facilities or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, any inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these projects or acquisitions in the time frame we anticipate or any unanticipated required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Changes in the cost and availability of wood fiber used in production of our products may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Wood fiber, primarily wood chips and sawdust, is the principal raw material used in our pulp and paperboard products. Wood fiber, in the form of pulp, is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of our consumer products. Pulp is subject to significant price fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of wood fiber markets. Increases in pulp prices could adversely affect our earnings if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers or if these price increases for our products significantly trail the increases in pulp prices. We do not hedge to manage these risks. Much of the wood fiber we use in our pulp manufacturing process is the by-product of lumber mill operations, particularly in Idaho. As a result, the price of these residual wood fibers is affected by operating levels in the lumber industry. The significant reduction in home building in 2008 and 2009 resulted in the closure or curtailment of operations at many lumber mills. However, overall wood fiber prices for our pulp and paperboard production fell in 2009 as a result of a decline in whole log prices due to the effect of the poor housing market on log prices. The price of wood fiber is expected to remain volatile until the housing market recovers and lumber mill operations increase. Additionally, the supply and price of wood fiber can be negatively affected by weather and other events. Record amounts of rainfall in Arkansas had a negative effect on the supply of wood fiber to our Cypress Bend facility during the fall of 2009. The effects on market prices for wood fiber resulting from various governmental programs involving tax credits or payments related to biomass and other renewable energy projects, such as the Biomass Crop Assistance Program and American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, are uncertain and could result in a reduction in the supply of wood fiber for our pulp and paperboard manufacturing operations. If we are unable to obtain wood fiber at favorable prices or at all, our financial results and operations may be materially adversely affected. CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2009 FORM 10-K 9 Table of Contents United States and global economic conditions could have adverse affects on the demand for our products and our financial results. U.S. and global economic conditions have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect our business and financial results. Recessed economic conditions affect our business in a number of ways, including causing (i) increased pressure for price concessions from customers; (ii) declines in domestic and global demand for paperboard; (iii) shifts in customer purchases that affect the mix of our product sales; (iv) decreased or low housing starts, which increase our production costs due to lower wood fiber supplies and extend the slump in demand for our wood products; and (v) financial distress or insolvency for certain customers which could affect our sales volumes or our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from those customers. Increased competition over, and customer demands for, certain products could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our consumer products compete with well-known, branded products, as well as other private label products. Inherent risks in our competitive strategy include whether our products will receive direct and retail customer acceptance, new product offerings by competitors, the effects of consolidation within retailer and distribution channels, and price competition from companies that may have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, some of our private label competitors have built or announced plans to build new papermaking facilities that will produce TAD paper that is then converted to produce high-end consumer products that compete with high-end branded products. Our Consumer Products paper machines in Idaho do not produce TAD paper, and we currently do not produce TAD bathroom tissue. If we are unable to offer our existing customers, or new customers, comparable consumer products and in sufficient quantities, we may lose business, not be able to grow our existing business and be forced to sell lower-margin products, all of which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future experience changes in demand for our products. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to adjust to increases and decreases in demand. If we are unable to implement our business strategies to respond to changes in demand, we may need to limit deliveries of some orders for existing customers, which could harm our reputation and our long-term relationships with these customers. Alternatively, if we experience a decrease in demand for certain products, we may incur significant costs in revising our manufacturing plan. If we are not able to respond to changes in demand for our products in a timely manner, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. The cost of energy and chemicals needed for our manufacturing processes significantly affects our business. Our manufacturing operations utilize large amounts of electricity and natural gas. Energy costs were 9% of our cost of sales in 2009 or $96.2 million. Energy prices have fluctuated widely over the past decade, which in turn affects our cost of sales. For example, our energy expenses were 15% lower in 2009 than in 2008. We purchase on the open market a substantial portion of the natural gas necessary to produce our products, and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand, government regulation, geopolitical events and natural disasters. To help mitigate the exposure to market risk for changes in natural gas commodity pricing, we use firm-price contracts to supply a portion of our natural gas requirements, and have taken steps to reduce our energy usage through conservation and increasing our internal energy production at our Lewiston, Idaho cogeneration facility. Our energy costs in future periods will depend principally on our ability to produce a substantial portion of our electricity needs internally, on changes in market prices for natural gas and on reducing energy usage. Any significant energy shortage or significant increase in our energy costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in the supply of energy could also affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. 10 Table of Contents We also use a variety of chemicals in our manufacturing processes, including latex and polyethylene, many of which are petroleum-based chemicals. For example, our chemical prices were approximately 14% lower in 2009 compared to 2008. Prices for these chemicals have been and are expected to remain volatile. In addition, chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacturing of their chemicals may, due to supply shortages and cost increases, ration the amount of chemicals available to us, and therefore we may not be able to obtain at favorable prices the chemicals we need to operate our business, if we are able to obtain them at all. Finally, certain specialty chemicals that we purchase are available only from a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to obtain such chemicals at favorable prices, if at all. Cyclical industry conditions have in the past affected and may continue to adversely affect the operating results and cash flow of our Pulp and Paperboard business. Our Pulp and Paperboard business is particularly subject to cyclical market conditions. We may be unable to sustain pricing in the face of weaker demand, and weaker demand may in turn cause us to take production downtime. In addition to lost revenue from lower shipment volumes, production downtime causes unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs due to lower production levels. Our results of operations and cash flows may be materially affected in a period of prolonged and significant market weakness. We are not able to predict market conditions or our ability to sustain pricing and production levels during periods of weak demand. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from any of our large customers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In 2009, our Consumer Products segment derived approximately 60% of its net sales, and the company derived approximately 27% of total net sales, from three customers. Sales to these three customers have represented nearly 60% of segment net sales in each of the last three fiscal years. Our Pulp and Paperboard segment sells its products to a large number of customers, although certain customers have historically purchased a significant amount of our pulp or paperboard products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers that ensure a continuing level of business from them. In addition, our agreements with our customers are not exclusive and generally do not contain minimum volume purchase commitments. Our relationships with our large customers depend on our ability to continue to meet their needs for quality products at competitive prices. If we lose one of these customers or if we experience a significant decline in the level of purchases by any of them, we may not be able to quickly replace the lost business volume and our operating results and business could be harmed. In addition, our focus on these large accounts could affect our ability to serve our smaller accounts, particularly when product supply is tight and we are not able to fully satisfy orders for these smaller accounts. Significant competition could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our net sales and profitability. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and companies that have substantially greater financial resources than we do compete with us in each market. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs. Our Consumer Products business faces competition from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. Our Consumer Products business competes with the branded tissue products producers, such as Procter & Gamble, and branded label producers who manufacture branded and private label products, such as Georgia-Pacific and Kimberly-Clark. These companies are far larger than us, have much greater sales, marketing and research and development resources than we do, and enjoy significant cost advantages due to economies of scale. Historically, branded tissue producers have not produced private label tissue products. The greater scope and scale of operations enjoyed at major branded tissue producers would allow them to produce private label tissue at lower costs than we incur. Because of their size and resources, these companies may foresee market trends more accurately than we do and develop new technologies that render our products less attractive or obsolete. CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2009 FORM 10-K 11 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully compete in the pulp and paperboard industry is influenced by a number of factors, including manufacturing capacity, general economic conditions and the availability and demand for paperboard substitutes. Our Pulp and Paperboard business competes with International Paper, MeadWestvaco, Georgia-Pacific, Rock-Tenn and international producers, most of whom are much larger than us. Any increase in manufacturing capacity by any of these producers could result in overcapacity in the pulp and paperboard industry, which could cause downward pressure on pricing. In addition, customers could choose to use types of paperboard that we do not produce or could rely on alternative materials, such as plastic, for their products. An increased supply of any of these products could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We benefited greatly in 2009 from a tax credit that has expired and there are uncertainties related to refundable tax credits that we have received. We are registered with the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, as an alternative fuel mixer and have received refundable tax credit payments in connection with our use of “black liquor,” a by-product of the pulp manufacturing process, in an alternative fuel mixture to produce energy at our pulp mills. The amount of the refundable tax credit is equal to $0.50 per gallon of alternative fuel mixture used. In 2009, we recorded income of $170.6 million related to the alternative fuel mixture tax credit. There is relatively little guidance regarding the alternative fuel mixture tax credit and the law governing the issue is complex. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we were qualified to receive the tax credit in 2009, or whether we will be entitled to retain the amounts we received upon further review by the IRS. In addition, while it is our position that payments received or credits taken in relation to the alternative fuel mixture tax credit should not be subject to corporate income tax, there can be no assurance as to whether or not the amounts we have received will be subject to taxation. Increases in our transportation costs or disruptions in our transportation services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business, primarily our Consumer Products business, is dependent on transportation services to transport our products to our customers and deliver raw materials to us. In 2009, transportation costs for our business were 10% of our cost of sales. The costs of these transportation services are affected by the volatility in fuel prices. We have not been in the past and may not in the future be able to pass along part or all of any fuel price increases to our customers. If we are unable to increase our prices to respond to increased fuel costs charged to us by our transportation providers, our gross margins may be materially adversely affected. If any of our transportation providers fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, which could increase our costs and subject us to liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, water discharges, air emissions, hazardous material and waste management and environmental cleanup. Environmental laws and regulations continue to evolve and we may become subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly under air quality and water quality laws and standards related to climate change issues, such as reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. We are required to comply with environmental laws and the terms and conditions of multiple environmental permits. Failure to comply with these laws and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing our operations or requiring us to take corrective measures, install pollution control equipment, or take other remedial 12 Table of Contents actions, product recalls or labeling changes. We also may be required to make additional expenditures, which could be significant, relating to environmental matters on an ongoing basis. We also own properties, conduct or have conducted operations at properties, or have assumed indemnity obligations in connection with our spin-off from Potlatch for properties or operations, where hazardous materials have been or were used for many years, including during periods before careful management of these materials was required or generally believed to be necessary. Consequently, we will continue to be subject to environmental laws that impose liability for historical releases of hazardous substances. There can be no assurance that future environmental permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew the permits we currently hold, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial performance may be harmed by future labor disruptions. Approximately 63% of our full-time employees are represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacement agreements on terms acceptable to us. Any failure to reach an agreement with one of the unions may result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions. Any such labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We regularly incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment and any interruption in the operations of our facilities may harm our operating performance. We regularly incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment and facilities. The machines and equipment that we use to produce our products are complex, have many parts and some are run on a continuous basis. We must perform routine maintenance on our equipment and have to periodically replace a variety of parts such as motors, pumps, pipes and electrical parts. In addition, our pulp and paperboard facilities require periodic shutdowns to perform major maintenance. These scheduled shutdowns of our facilities result in decreased sales and increased costs in the periods in which the shutdown occurs. Unexpected production disruptions could also cause us to shut down any of our facilities. Those disruptions could occur due to any number of circumstances, including prolonged power outages, mechanical or process failures, shortages of raw materials, natural catastrophes, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes, terrorism and changes in or non-compliance with environmental or safety laws. Any facility shutdowns may be followed by prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Wood Products business is highly sensitive to downturns in the housing market. Our Wood Products business is a commodity business, which is closely tied to the demand for, and supply of, housing. The home building industry is influenced by numerous factors, including economic changes nationally and locally, mortgage and other interest rates, consumer confidence, job formation, demographic trends, tax incentives, and the availability of credit. The current depressed conditions in the housing market resulting from, among other factors, excess unsold home inventory levels and lack of availability of credit for lenders, builders and homebuyers, have materially adversely affected our Wood Products segment. A continuing and prolonged downturn in the housing market could have a significant adverse effect on the future results of operations of our Wood Products segment. Our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing cash available for our business. We have company-sponsored pension plans covering our salaried and hourly employees. The significant decline in the securities markets in 2008 and resulting substantial decline in the value of equity and fixed income investments held by the plans caused these pension plans to be underfunded because our projected CLEARWATER PAPER CORPORATION 2009 FORM 10-K 13 Table of Contents benefit obligation exceeds the aggregate fair value of plan assets. We are required to make cash contributions to our qualified pension plans for 2009 and 2010 (approximately $3.9 million plus interest payable by September 2010 and approximately $8.5 million plus interest payable by September 2011) and we may be required to make increased annual contributions to our pension plans in future years, which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. Our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. In addition to our pension plans, we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our current and former U.S. salaried and hourly employees. Our retiree health care costs vary with changes in health care costs generally, which have significantly exceeded general economic inflation rates for many years. Our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension costs. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. We rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations, and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our financial condition. We use information technology systems in various aspects of our operations, including enterprise resource planning, management of inventories and customer sales. Some of these systems have been in place for long periods of time. If one of these systems was to fail, or we decide to change these systems or hire outside parties to provide these systems, we may suffer disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing new systems. If our spin-off from Potlatch is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, and our stockholders, could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Potlatch received a private letter ruling from the IRS that its spin-off of our company qualifies for tax-free treatment under applicable sections of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, Potlatch received an opinion from tax counsel that the spin-off so qualifies. The IRS ruling and the opinion relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and neither the IRS ruling nor the opinion would be valid if such representations, assumptions and undertakings were incorrect. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling and opinion, the IRS could determine that the spin-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the IRS ruling. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, Potlatch would be subject to tax as if it had sold our common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our initial public stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. Under the tax sharing agreement between Potlatch and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Potlatch against any tax resulting from the spin-off (including any tax that would result if Potlatch were to fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust, as a result of income recognized by Potlatch if the spin-off were determined to be taxable) to the extent that such tax resulted from (1) an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, (2) other actions or failures to act by us, or (3) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. Our indemnification obligations to Potlatch and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Potlatch or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. 14 Table of Contents We must abide by certain restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off and may not be able to engage in desirable acquisitions and other strategic transactions following the spin-off. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off to Potlatch and our stockholders, under the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with Potlatch, for the two-year period following the distribution, we may be prohibited, except with the consent of Potlatch, from: ¡ issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs if such issuance would represent a 50% or greater interest in us; ¡ acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities if such issuance would represent a 50% or greater interest in us; or ¡ engaging in mergers or asset transfers that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following: ¡ a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; ¡ the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; ¡ stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent; ¡ advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; ¡ removal of directors only for cause; ¡ allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and ¡ supermajority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. We are also subject to Delaware laws that could have similar effects. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with a significant stockholder unless specific conditions are met. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 