ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The expansion of our business through the construction of new paper making and converting facilities may not proceed as anticipated. In connection with our long-term growth strategy, we are building a new TAD paper machine and converting facilities in Shelby, North Carolina. Building these facilities entails numerous risks, including difficulties in completing the project on time due to construction issues, permitting issues or as a result of the litigation described in the following paragraph, cost overruns and difficulties in integrating the new operations and personnel. Any of these risks, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, such events could also divert management’s attention from other business concerns. The TAD paper machine under construction in North Carolina is highly complex and costly and it can be manufactured by only a few companies in the world. In 2010, we contracted with Metso Paper USA to construct the TAD paper machine. Our contract with Metso Paper calls for an expected delivery of the TAD paper machine by July 2012. In August 2011, First Quality Tissue SE, LLC, a competing third party tissue manufacturer, filed a lawsuit against Metso Paper, which is now pending in federal court in South Carolina, to enjoin Metso Paper from delivering a TAD paper machine to Clearwater Paper based on the terms of an agreement between Metso Paper and First Quality. Although we were not named as a party to this litigation, we intervened in the litigation in November 2011 to represent our interests. In light of this ongoing litigation, there is no assurance that Metso Paper will be able to deliver the TAD Paper machine that we contracted for on time. In such case, we do not expect that we would be able to find a replacement without significant additional cost and delay. We may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of Cellu Tissue because of integration difficulties and other challenges. In December 2010, we acquired Cellu Tissue, which significantly expanded the size of our manufacturing and converting operations. The long term success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, including anticipated cost savings from synergies, which 9 Table of Contents we have estimated to be between $15 and $20 million in 2012 and on track to be between $35 and $40 million in the aggregate on an annual basis in future years. The ongoing integration process has been and will continue to be complex and time-consuming. The potential risks associated with our efforts to integrate the operations of Cellu Tissue’s business include, among others: ¡ failure to implement effectively our business plan for the combined business; ¡ unanticipated issues in the continuing integration of financial, manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; ¡ failure to retain key employees; ¡ failure to retain key customers; and ¡ unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. Failure to achieve, or a delay in achieving, these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, diversion of management’s time and energy, and could materially impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Changes in the cost and availability of wood fiber used in production of our products may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Wood fiber is the principal raw material used to create wood pulp, which in turn is used to manufacture our pulp and paperboard products and consumer products. In 2011, our wood fiber costs were 28.6% of our cost of sales. Much of the wood fiber we use in our pulp manufacturing process is the by-product of sawmill operations. As a result, the price of these residual wood fibers is affected by operating levels in the lumber industry. The significant reduction in home building over the past four years resulted in the closure or curtailment of operations at many sawmills. The price of wood fiber is expected to remain volatile until the housing market recovers and sawmill operations increase. Additionally, the supply and price of wood fiber can be negatively affected by weather and other events. The effects on market prices for wood fiber resulting from various governmental programs involving tax credits or payments related to biomass and other renewable energy projects are uncertain and could result in a reduction in the supply of wood fiber available for our pulp and paperboard manufacturing operations. If we and our pulp suppliers are unable to obtain wood fiber at favorable prices or at all, our financial results, operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We have increased our dependence on external sources of wood pulp, which subjects our business and results of operations to significant price fluctuations. In 2010, our Consumer Products segment sourced approximately 65% of its annual pulp supply from our Pulp and Paperboard segment, while the Cellu Tissue operations we acquired historically relied entirely on external suppliers for wood pulp. Consequently, due to the integration of the Cellu Tissue operations, our Consumer Products segment sourced approximately 75% of its pulp requirements externally during 2011. The increased dependence on external sources of wood pulp increases our exposure to fluctuations in prices for wood pulp, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, operations and cash flows. The volatility of pulp prices can adversely affect our earnings if we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers or if the timing of any price increases for our products significantly trails the increases in pulp prices. We have not hedged these risks. Increases in our transportation costs or disruptions in our transportation services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business, particularly our Consumer Products business, is dependent on transportation services to deliver our products to our customers and to deliver raw materials to us. In 2011, our transportation costs were 8.7% of our cost of sales. The costs of these transportation services are primarily determined by fuel 10 Table of Contents prices, which have steadily increased since 2008 and are affected by geopolitical and economic events. We have not been in the past, and may not be in the future, able to pass along part or all of any fuel price increases to customers. If we are unable to increase our prices as a result of increased fuel costs charged to us by transportation providers, our gross margins may be materially adversely affected. If any transportation providers fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, labor strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The cost of chemicals and energy needed for our manufacturing processes significantly affects our business. We use a variety of chemicals in our manufacturing processes, including latex and polyethylene, many of which are petroleum-based chemicals. In 2011, our chemical costs were 10.3% of our cost of sales. Prices for these chemicals have been and are expected to remain volatile. In addition, chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their chemicals may, due to supply shortages and cost increases, ration the amount of chemicals available to us, and therefore we may not be able to obtain at favorable prices the chemicals we need to operate our business, if we are able to obtain them at all. Our manufacturing operations utilize large amounts of electricity and natural gas. In 2011, our energy costs were 7.6% of our cost of sales. Energy prices have fluctuated widely over the past decade, which in turn affects cost of sales. We purchase on the open market a substantial portion of the natural gas necessary to produce our products, and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand, geopolitical events, government regulation, and natural disasters. To help mitigate the exposure to market risk for changes in natural gas commodity pricing, we have occasionally used firm-price contracts to supply a portion of our natural gas requirements. We have also taken steps to reduce our energy usage through conservation and to increase our internal energy production at our Lewiston, Idaho, Menominee, Michigan and East Hartford, Connecticut, cogeneration facilities. Our energy costs in future periods will depend principally on our ability to produce a substantial portion of our electricity needs internally, on changes in market prices for natural gas and on reducing energy usage. Any significant energy shortage or significant increase in our energy costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any disruption in the supply of energy could also affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from, or changes in prices in regards to, any of our large customers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In 2011, our Consumer Products segment derived approximately 33% of its net sales, and we derived approximately 19% of our total net sales, from three customers. We have experienced increased price and promotion competition for our consumer products customers, which can decrease our gross margins and adversely affect our financial condition. Some of our customers have the capability to produce the parent rolls or products themselves that they purchase from us. Our Pulp and Paperboard segment sells its products to a large number of customers, although certain customers have historically purchased a significant amount of our pulp or paperboard products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers that ensure a continuing level of business from them. In addition, our agreements with our customers are not exclusive and generally do not contain minimum volume purchase commitments. Our relationship with our large customers will depend on our ability to continue to meet their needs for quality products at competitive prices. If we lose one of these customers or if we experience a significant decline in the level of purchases by any of them, we may not be able to quickly replace the lost business 11 Table of Contents volume and our operating results and business could be harmed. In addition, our focus on these large accounts could affect our ability to serve our smaller accounts, particularly when product supply is tight and we are not able to fully satisfy orders for these smaller accounts. Changes in demand for certain products could adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our ability to adjust to increases and decreases in demand. If we are unable to respond to increases in demand, we may need to limit deliveries of some orders for existing customers, which could harm our reputation and our long-term relationships with these customers. Alternatively, if we experience a decrease in demand for certain products, we may incur significant costs in revising our manufacturing plan. If we are not able to respond to changes in demand for our products in a timely manner, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Branded products and increased competition over TAD products could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our consumer products compete with well-known, branded products, as well as other private label products. Inherent risks in our competitive strategy include whether our products will receive direct and retail customer acceptance, new product offerings by competitors, the effects of consolidation within retailer and distribution channels, and price competition from companies that may have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, some of our private label competitors have built or have announced plans to build new papermaking facilities that will produce TAD paper used to produce high-end consumer products that compete with high-end branded products. We currently produce TAD paper used for paper towels at only two facilities located in Las Vegas and St. Catharines, Ontario, and we currently do not produce TAD bathroom tissue. If we are unable to offer our existing customers, or new customers, comparable consumer products and in sufficient quantities, we may lose business or we may not be able to grow our existing business and be forced to sell lower-margin products, all of which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Cyclical industry conditions have in the past affected and may continue to adversely affect the operating results and cash flow of our Pulp and Paperboard business. Our Pulp and Paperboard business is particularly affected by cyclical market conditions. We may be unable to sustain pricing in the face of weaker demand, and weaker demand may in turn cause us to take production downtime. In addition to lost revenue from lower shipment volumes, production downtime causes unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs due to lower production levels. Our results of operations and cash flows may be materially affected in a period of prolonged and significant market weakness. We are not able to predict market conditions or our ability to sustain pricing and production levels during periods of weak demand. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain raw materials required for the production of our products. Furthermore, in some cases we rely on a single supplier. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers or on a single supplier, and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials, involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality, and delivery schedules. We cannot be certain that our current suppliers will continue to provide us with the quantities of these raw materials that we require or will continue to satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited or sole-sourced raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could interrupt production of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additional expansion of our business through construction of new facilities or acquisitions may not proceed as anticipated. In addition to the acquisition of Cellu Tissue and construction of our North Carolina facilities, in the future we may build other converting and papermaking facilities, pursue acquisitions of existing facilities, or both. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to identify future suitable building locations or acquisition targets. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings from construction projects or acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. Any inability by us to integrate and manage any new or acquired facilities or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, any inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these projects or acquisitions in the time frame we anticipate or any unanticipated required increases in promotional or capital spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Large construction projects or acquisitions can result in a decrease in our cash and short-term investments, an increase in our indebtedness, or both, and also may limit our ability to access additional capital when needed and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. United States and global economic conditions could have adverse effects on the demand for our products and financial results. U.S. and global economic conditions have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect our business and financial results. In particular, the away-from-home consumer paper products market has experienced a decline because of the slowdown in the travel and restaurant industries as a result of the current economic downturn. Recessed economic conditions affect our business in a number of ways, including causing (i) increased pressure for price concessions from customers; (ii) declines in domestic and global demand for paperboard; (iii) shifts in customer purchases that affect the mix of our product sales; (iv) decreased or low housing starts, which increase production costs due to lower wood fiber supplies; and (v) financial distress or insolvency for certain customers which could affect our sales volumes or our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from those customers. Larger competitors have operational and other advantages over our operations. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and companies that have substantially greater financial resources compete with us in each market. Some of our competitors will have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs and better access to the inputs of our products. Our Consumer Products business faces competition from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. Our Consumer Products business competes with the branded tissue products producers, such as Procter & Gamble, and branded label producers who manufacture branded and private label products, such as Georgia-Pacific and Kimberly-Clark. These companies are far larger than us, have much greater sales, marketing and research and development resources than we do, and enjoy significant cost advantages due to economies of scale. In addition, because of their size and resources, these companies may foresee market trends more accurately than we do and develop new technologies that render our products less attractive or obsolete. Our ability to successfully compete in the pulp and paperboard industry is influenced by a number of factors, including manufacturing capacity, general economic conditions and the availability and demand for paperboard substitutes. Our Pulp and Paperboard business competes with International Paper, MeadWestvaco, Georgia-Pacific, RockTenn and international producers, most of whom are much larger than us. Any increase in manufacturing capacity by any of these or other producers could result in overcapacity in the pulp and paperboard industry, which could cause downward pressure on pricing. In addition, customers could choose to use types of paperboard that we do not produce or could rely on alternative materials, such as plastic, for their products. An increased supply of any of these products could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The consolidation of paperboard converting businesses, including through the acquisition and integration of such converting business by larger competitors of ours, could result in a loss of customers and sales on the part of our Pulp and Paperboard business, which does not include paperboard converting facilities or capabilities. A loss of paperboard customers or sales as a result of consolidations and integrations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Our qualification to retain, or ability to utilize, tax credits associated with alternative fuels or cellulosic biofuels and the tax treatment associated with receipt of such credits are uncertain. In 2009, we received refundable federal tax credit payments in connection with our use of “black liquor,” a by-product of the pulp manufacturing process, in an alternative fuel mixture to produce energy at our pulp mills. The amount of the refundable tax credit was equal to $0.50 per gallon of alternative fuel mixture used. This tax credit expired on December 31, 2009. In 2009, we recorded pre-tax income of $170.6 million related to the Alternative Fuel Mixture Tax Credit, or AFMTC. We did not record any income in 2010 relating to the AFMTC. There is relatively little guidance regarding the AFMTC and the law governing the issue is complex. Accordingly, there remains uncertainty as to our qualification to receive the tax credit in 2009, as well as to whether we will be entitled to retain the amounts we received upon further review by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. In addition, while it is our position that payments received or credits taken in relation to the AFMTC should not be subject to corporate income tax, there can be no assurance as to whether or not the amounts we have received will be subject to taxation. We are also registered with the IRS as a cellulosic biofuel producer, which enables us to claim the $1.01 per gallon Cellulosic Biofuel Producer Credit, or CBPC, in regards to black liquor produced and used as a fuel by us at our pulp mills in 2009. We have changed, and may in the future make additional changes in, our position as to some or all of the credits we claimed under the AFMTC on our 2009 federal income tax form, provided we believe we will have sufficient future federal taxable earnings to enable us to carry forward the credits potentially available under the CBPC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully utilize the CBPC. Congress has identified the elimination or modification of the CBPC in connection with black liquor as a possible revenue source. Such legislative action could limit or eliminate our ability to convert AFMTC gallons to CBPC gallons and/or CBPC gallons to AFMTC gallons and, accordingly, limit or eliminate our ability to claim carry forward credits of $35 million. Our business and financial performance may be harmed by future labor disruptions. Approximately 54% of our full-time employees are represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacement agreements on terms acceptable to us. We currently have three collective bargaining agreements under negotiation. Any failure to reach an agreement with one of the unions may result in strikes, lockouts or other labor actions. Any such labor actions, including work slowdowns or stoppages, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, which could increase our costs and subject us to liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, water discharges, air emissions, hazardous material and waste management and environmental cleanup. Environmental laws and regulations continue to evolve and we may become subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly under air quality and water quality laws and standards related to climate change issues, such as reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. Increased regulatory activity at the state, federal and international level is possible regarding climate change as well as other emerging environmental issues associated with our manufacturing sites. Compliance with regulations that implement new public policy in these areas might require significant expenditures on our part. We are required to comply with environmental laws and the terms and conditions of multiple environmental permits. In particular, the pulp and paper industry in the United States is subject to several performance based rules associated with effluent and air emissions as a result of certain of its manufacturing processes. Federal, state and local laws and regulations require us to routinely obtain authorizations from and comply with the evolving standards of the appropriate governmental authorities, which have considerable discretion over the terms of permits. Failure to comply with environmental laws and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing our operations or requiring us to take corrective measures, install pollution control equipment, or take other remedial actions, such as product recalls or labeling changes. We also may be required to make additional expenditures, which could be significant, relating to environmental matters on an ongoing basis. 14 Table of Contents We own properties, conduct or have conducted operations at properties, and have assumed indemnity obligations in connection with our spin-off in 2008 from Potlatch for properties or operations, where hazardous materials have been or were used for many years, including during periods before careful management of these materials was required or generally believed to be necessary. Consequently, we will continue to be subject to risks under environmental laws that impose liability for historical releases of hazardous substances. There can be no assurance that future environmental permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew existing permits, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment and any interruption in the operations of our facilities may harm our operating performance. We regularly incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment and facilities. The machines and equipment that we use to produce our products are complex, have many parts and some are run on a continuous basis. We must perform routine maintenance on our equipment and will have to periodically replace a variety of parts such as motors, pumps, pipes and electrical parts. In addition, our pulp and paperboard facilities require periodic shutdowns to perform major maintenance. These scheduled shutdowns of facilities result in decreased sales and increased costs in the periods in which a shutdown occurs. Unexpected production disruptions could cause us to shut down or curtail operations at any of our facilities. For example, in 2011 we curtailed operations at our Cypress Bend, Arkansas, pulp and paperboard facility as the result of an electrical malfunction and curtailed operations at our Wiggins, Mississippi, consumer products facility as the result of a fire. Disruptions could occur due to any number of circumstances, including prolonged power outages, mechanical or process failures, shortages of raw materials, natural catastrophes, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes, terrorism, changes in or non-compliance with environmental or safety laws and the lack of availability of services from any of our facilities’ key sole suppliers. Any facility shutdowns may be followed by prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our company-sponsored pension plans and one of our multiemployer pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing cash available for our business. We have company-sponsored pension plans covering certain of our salaried and hourly employees. The significant decline in the securities markets beginning in 2008 and resulting substantial decline in the value of equity and fixed income investments held by these plans caused these plans to be underfunded because the projected benefit obligation exceeds the aggregate fair value of plan assets. At December 31, 2011, our company sponsored pension plans were underfunded in the aggregate by approximately $89.1 million. As a result of underfunding, we are required to make contributions to our qualified pension plans. In 2011, we contributed $12.5 million to these pension plans. We may be required to make increased annual contributions to our pension plans in future years, which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. We also contribute to two multiemployer pension plans. The amount of our annual contributions to each of these plans is negotiated with the plan and the bargaining unit representing our employees covered by the plan. In 2011, we contributed $5.9 million to these plans, and in future years we may be required to make increased annual contributions to these plans, which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. In addition, in the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any multiemployer plan that is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such multiemployer plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from the plan administrator of one of our multiemployer plans, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or plan termination may be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any multiemployer plan that is 15 Table of Contents underfunded, and such employer cannot satisfy its obligations under the multiemployer plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. In addition to our pension plans, we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our current and former U.S. salaried and hourly employees. Our retiree health care costs vary with changes in health care costs generally, which have significantly exceeded general economic inflation rates for many years. Our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions about future investment returns. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension costs. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations, and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our financial condition. We use information technology, or IT, systems in various aspects of our operations, including enterprise resource planning, management of inventories and customer sales. Some of these systems have been in place for long periods of time. Additionally, with the acquisition of Cellu Tissue, we have different legacy IT systems which we are continuing to integrate. If one of these systems was to fail, or if we decide to change these systems or hire outside parties to provide these systems, we may suffer disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing new systems. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We have outstanding indebtedness of $525 million under notes we issued in 2009 and 2010. These substantial debt obligations could have important consequences to our business. For example: ¡ we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our substantial debt service obligations; ¡ we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts, capital expenditures or strategic acquisitions; and ¡ our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Our ability to make debt payments, to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from our future operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. We may not be able to refinance our indebtedness or take such other actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The indentures for our notes, and our senior secured revolving credit facility, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and our failure to comply could result in an event of default that could cause repayment of the debt to be accelerated. The indentures governing the notes we issued in 2009 and 2010, and our senior secured revolving credit 16 Table of Contents facility contain various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business by restricting our ability to: ¡ undergo a change in control; ¡ sell assets; ¡ pay dividends and make other distributions; ¡ make investments and other restricted payments; ¡ redeem or repurchase our capital stock; ¡ incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; ¡ create liens; ¡ consolidate, merge, or sell substantially all of our assets; ¡ enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; ¡ engage in new lines of business; and ¡ enter into sale and lease-back transactions. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business at our discretion could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility requires, among other things, that we maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.0-to-1.0 when there are any commitments or obligations outstanding and availability falls below 12.5% or an event of default exists. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet this financial test. If we are not able to comply with the covenants and other requirements contained in the indentures governing our notes, our secured revolving credit facility or other debt instruments, an event of default under the relevant debt instrument could occur. If an event of default does occur, it could trigger a cross default under our other debt instruments, prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings, and permit the holders of the defaulted debt to declare amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments. In addition, we may not be able to refinance or restructure the payments on the applicable debt. Even if we were able to secure additional financing, it may not be available on favorable terms. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following: ¡ a classified Board of Directors with three-year staggered terms; ¡ the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; ¡ stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent; ¡ advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our Board of Directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; ¡ removal of directors only for cause; ¡ allowing only our Board of Directors to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors; and ¡ supermajority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. 17 Table of Contents While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of the company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. We are also subject to Delaware laws that could have similar effects. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with a significant stockholder unless specific conditions are met. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 