Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risk factors, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and you may lose all or a significant part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal could reduce our revenues and profitability and decrease the value of our coal reserves. Our revenues, results of operations and the value of our coal reserves depend on the prices we receive for our coal. Prices for coal tend to be cyclical, and over the last several years have become more volatile. The prices we receive for our coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: •domestic and foreign supply and demand for coal, including Asian and other foreign demand for U.S. coal exports; •domestic and foreign demand for electricity; •domestic and foreign economic conditions; •the quantity, quality and price of coal available from domestic and foreign competitors or the resale market; •competition for production of electricity from non-coal sources, including the price and availability of alternative fuels, such as natural gas and crude oil, and alternative energy sources, such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar power, and the effects of technological developments related to these non-coal and alternative energy sources; •adverse weather, climatic or other natural conditions, including natural disasters; •legislative, regulatory and judicial developments, environmental regulatory changes, or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal or utility industries, such as legislation that limits carbon dioxide or sulfur dioxide emissions or provides for increased funding, subsidies or other incentives for, or mandates the use of, alternative energy sources; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, including with respect to air emission standards for coal-fired power plants, and the ability of coal-fired power plants to meet these standards by installing scrubbers or other means; •market price fluctuations for sulfur dioxide emission allowances; •the capacity of, cost of, and proximity to, rail transportation and terminal facilities and rail and terminal performance; and •the other risks described in this Item 1A. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal due to these or other factors could reduce our revenues and profitability and value of our coal reserves. Competition with domestic and foreign coal producers and with producers of natural gas and other competing energy sources may negatively affect our sales volumes and our ability to sell coal at a favorable price. The coal industry is highly competitive. We compete directly with all domestic and many foreign coal producers, and indirectly with other energy producers throughout the U.S. and, for our export 23 Table of Contents sales, internationally. In addition to the price of coal, coal quality, and transportation costs, demand for coal also has a significant impact on our ability to compete domestically and internationally for coal sales. Demand for coal depends upon a number of factors, including: •general economic conditions and weather patterns, both of which are significant contributors to the demand for electricity; •port and shipping capacity, including ocean freight rates; •delivered prices for coal, including the relative costs of transportation from our mine site and competing mines; •availability and cost of alternative fuel sources, such as natural gas; •technological developments; and •environmental and other governmental regulations, including EPA regulations. Demand for U.S. coal exports has fluctuated over the last decade because of these and other factors. A decline in domestic demand for coal, or a decline in foreign demand for U.S. coal, could cause significant downward pressure on coal prices. Furthermore, overcapacity and increased production in the future, similar to the activities that occurred during the mid 1970s and early 1980s, could result in additional production capacity throughout the industry, causing increased competition and lower coal prices, materially reducing our revenues and profitability. In addition to competing with other coal producers, we compete generally with producers of other fuels, such as natural gas and crude oil. A decline in the price of natural gas, or sustained low natural gas prices, could cause demand for coal to decrease and adversely affect the price of our coal. For example, the average price of natural gas declined from $4.15 per thousand cubic feet as of December 2010 to $3.17 per thousand cubic feet as of December 2011, leading to, in some instances, fuel switching and decreased coal consumption by electricity-generating utilities. Sustained low natural gas prices may also cause utilities to phase out or close existing coal-fired power plants or reduce construction of any new coal-fired power plants, which could have a material adverse effect on demand and prices received for our coal. Legislation requiring the use and dispatch of alternative energy sources and fuels or legislation providing financing or incentives to encourage continuing technological advances and deployment in this area could further enable alternative energy sources to become more competitive with coal. If alternative energy sources, such as hydroelectric, wind or solar, become more cost-competitive, demand for coal could decrease and cause a decrease in the price of coal. If we do not maintain and grow our export sales, our results may be materially adversely affected. According to the EIA, the market share of coal used in electric generation is expected to decrease from 42% to 39% from 2012 to 2035 as a result of various factors, including low natural gas prices, regulatory and environmental pressures on coal-fired electricity generation and domestic and foreign economic conditions and associated electricity demand. A growing portion of our coal sales in recent years has been into export markets in Asia, and we are seeking to make additional export sales to Asia and potentially other international locations. Our ability to maintain our export sales revenues and margins depends on a number of factors, including the existence of sufficient and cost-effective export terminal capacity for the shipment of thermal coal to foreign markets and demand by customers in Asia and in other potential export markets for PRB coal. At present, there is limited terminal capacity for the export of PRB coal to foreign markets. Our access to existing and any future terminal capacity may be adversely affected by regulatory and permit requirements, environmental and other legal challenges, public perceptions and resulting political pressures, operational issues at terminals and competition among domestic coal producers for access to limited terminal capacity, among other 24 Table of Contents factors. If we fail to maintain terminal capacity, or are denied access to existing or any future terminals for the export of our coal on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our results from our export transactions will be materially adversely affected. International customer demand for PRB coal, and the prices those customers may be willing to pay for PRB coal and related transportation costs, can be affected by a variety of matters, including supplier diversity and security considerations, economic conditions and demand for electricity in the relevant markets, international energy policies and regulatory requirements, and availability and pricing for thermal coal delivered from alternative international basins. In addition, from time to time we enter into "take-or-pay" contracts for rail and port capacity related to our export sales. These contracts require us to pay for a minimum quantity of coal to be transported on the railway or through the port regardless of whether we sell any coal. If we fail to acquire sufficient export sales to meet our minimum obligations under these take-or-pay contracts, we are still obligated to make payments to the railway or port, which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, profitability and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unfavorable global or U.S. economic and market conditions. In recent years, the global economic downturn, particularly with respect to the U.S. economy, and the global financial and credit market disruptions had a negative impact on us and the coal industry generally. For example, the demand for electricity in our target markets decreased during 2009, which led to a decrease in coal consumption by customers. As a result, coal inventory by our customers increased during this time leading to our customers curtailing future orders and causing a decrease in coal prices. In 2009, we also experienced a greater than normal number of customers seeking to reduce the amount of tons taken under existing contracts through contractual remedies, such as force majeure provisions. Furthermore, because we typically seek to enter into long-term arrangements for the sale of a substantial portion of our coal, the average sales price we receive for our coal may lag behind any general economic recovery. Future economic downturns or further disruptions in the financial and credit markets could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in U.S. and global demand for electricity due to economic, weather or other conditions could negatively affect coal prices. Our coal customers primarily use our coal as fuel for electricity generation. Overall economic activity and the associated demands for power by industrial users can have significant effects on overall electricity demand and can be caused by a number of factors. An economic slowdown can significantly slow the growth of electricity demand and could result in reduced demand for coal. For example, declines in the rate of international economic growth in countries such as China, India or other developing countries could impact the demand for U.S. coal. Weather patterns can also greatly affect electricity demand. Extreme temperatures, both hot and cold, cause increased power usage and, therefore, increase generating requirements from all sources. Mild temperatures, on the other hand, result in lower electrical demand, which allows generators to choose the sources of power generation when deciding which generation sources to dispatch. For example, in 2009, several regions in the U.S. experienced a cool summer, causing the coal inventory of our customers to grow and demand for coal to decrease. Decreases in coal demand for these or other reasons could cause downward pressure on coal prices and would negatively impact our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our coal mining operations are subject to operating risks, which could result in materially increased operating expenses and decreased production levels. We mine coal at surface mining operations located in Wyoming and Montana. Our coal mining operations are subject to a number of operating risks. These operating risks include, among others: •poor mining conditions resulting from geological, hydrologic, ground or other conditions, which may cause instability of highwalls or spoil-piles or cause damage to nearby infrastructure such as roads, power lines, railways and gas pipelines; •critical mining and plant equipment failures, unexpected maintenance problems or damage from fire, flooding or other events; •adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains, flooding, droughts, dust and other natural events affecting operations, transportation or customers; •the unavailability of raw materials, equipment (including heavy mobile equipment) or other critical supplies such as tires and explosives, fuel, lubricants and other consumables of the type, quantity and/or size needed to meet production expectations; •the capacity of, and proximity to, rail transportation facilities and rail transportation delays or interruptions, including derailments; •competition and/or conflicts with other natural resource extraction activities and production within our operating areas, such as coalbed methane extraction or oil and gas development; and •a major incident at a mine site that causes all or part of the operations of a mine to cease for some period of time. Because we maintain very little produced coal inventory, disruptions in our operations due to these or other risks could negatively impact or even halt production and shipments, significantly increase the cost of mining and impact our ability to meet our contractual obligations to customers and others, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some of these risks, although there can be no assurance regarding the extent, if any, to which these risks would be covered by our insurance policies. If we are unable to acquire or develop additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable, our profitability may be reduced and our future success and growth may be significantly impacted. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine, in a timely and cost-effective manner, coal reserves that possess the quality characteristics our customers' desire. Because our reserves decline as we mine our coal, our future success and growth depend upon our ability to acquire additional coal that is economically recoverable. We primarily acquire additional coal through the federal competitive leasing process, but we also enter into state and private coal leases as well as acquire coal from private third parties. If we fail to acquire or develop additional reserves, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted. Our ability to obtain additional coal reserves in the future could also be limited by a number of factors, any of which could impact our business and growth strategy, including: •the availability of cash we generate from our operations; •available financing and restrictions under our debt instruments; •competition from other coal companies for properties; •lack of suitable acquisition or LBA opportunities; or 26 Table of Contents •delay in the federal leasing process caused by third-party legal challenges or the inability to acquire coal properties or federal coal leases on commercially reasonable terms. Any significant delay in acquiring reserves could negatively impact our production rate. We will need to acquire additional coal reserves that can be mined on an economically recoverable basis to maintain our production capacity and competitive position. We may be unable to mine future reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. The price we receive for our coal also impacts how economically we can recover our existing coal. Our ability to develop economically recoverable reserves will be materially adversely impacted if prices for coal sold decrease significantly. Because most of the coal in the vicinity of our mines is owned by the U.S. federal government, our future success and growth would be affected if we are unable to acquire or are significantly delayed in the acquisition of additional reserves through the federal competitive leasing process. The U.S. federal government owns most of the coal in the vicinity of our mines. Accordingly, the federal competitive leasing process is our primary means of acquiring additional reserves. There is no requirement that the federal government must lease its coal. Furthermore, there is no requirement that the federal government must give preference to any LBA applicant which means our bids for federal coal leases may compete with other coal producers' bids. Over time, federal coal leases have become increasingly more competitive and expensive to obtain, and the review process to submit an LBA for bid continues to lengthen. We expect this trend to continue. The increasing size of potential LBA tracts may make it easier for new mining operators to enter the market on economic terms and may, therefore, increase competition for federal coal leases. Increased opposition from non-governmental organizations and other third parties may also lengthen, delay or complicate the LBA process. In order to win a lease in the LBA process and acquire additional coal, our bid for a coal tract must meet or exceed the fair market value of the coal based on the internal estimates of the BLM, which is not published. Any failure or delay in acquiring a coal lease through the LBA process, or the inability to do so on economic terms, could cause our production to decline, materially adversely affecting our business, cash flows and results of operations. For example, the West Antelope II leases we were awarded through the LBA process in 2011 are subject to pending legal challenges against the BLM and the Secretary of the Interior by environmental organizations, which could materially impact our ability to mine the coal subject to those leases or delay our access to mine the coal. The LBA process also requires us to acquire rights to mine from certain surface owners overlying the coal before the federal government will agree to lease the coal. Surface rights in the PRB are becoming increasingly more difficult and costly to acquire. Certain federal regulations provide a specific class of surface owners, also known as qualified surface owners ("QSO"), with the ability to prohibit the BLM from leasing its coal. For example, in connection with a pending LBA that we nominated for our Cordero Rojo mine, the BLM has indicated that certain surface owners satisfy the regulatory definition of QSO. If a QSO owns the land overlying a coal tract, federal laws prohibit us from leasing the coal tract without first securing surface rights to the land, or purchasing the surface rights from the QSO. This right of QSOs allows them to exercise significant influence over negotiations to acquire surface rights and can delay the LBA process or ultimately prevent the acquisition of coal underlying their surface. If we are unable to successfully negotiate access rights with QSOs at a price and on terms acceptable to us, we may be unable to acquire federal coal leases on land owned by the QSO. Our profitability could be materially adversely affected if the prices to acquire land owned by QSOs increase. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to acquire surface rights to access our coal, we may be unable to obtain a permit or otherwise be unable to mine coal we own and may be required to employ expensive techniques to mine around those sections of land we cannot access in order to access other sections of coal reserves. After we acquire coal we are required to obtain a permit to mine the coal through the applicable state agencies before we are allowed to begin mining. In part, the permitting requirements provide that, under certain circumstances, we must obtain surface owner consent if the surface estate has been split from the mineral estate, which is commonly known as a "split estate." We have in the past and may in the future be required to negotiate with multiple parties for the surface access that overlies coal we acquired. If we are unable to successfully negotiate surface access with any of these surface owners, or do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may be denied a permit to mine some of the coal we have acquired or may find that we cannot mine the coal at a profit or at all. If we are denied a permit, this would create significant delays and restrictions in our mining operations and materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if we determine to alter our plans to mine around the affected areas, we could incur significant additional costs to do so, which could increase our operating expenses considerably and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to successfully negotiate access for surface rights overlying coal that we control in a timely manner may also result in significant accounting charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Defects in title or the loss of a leasehold interest in, or superior or conflicting property rights impacting, reserves or surface rights could limit our ability to mine our coal reserves and adversely impact our operations and costs. A title defect on any lease, whether private or through a governmental entity, or the surface rights related to any of our reserves could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated coal reserves. Consistent with industry practice, we conduct only limited investigations of title to our coal properties prior to leasing. Title to properties leased from private third parties is not usually fully verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until we have obtained the necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. Title or other defects in surface rights held by us or other third parties could impair our ability to mine the associated coal reserves or cause us to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, these leasehold interests may be subject to superior property rights of other third parties. The federal government leases many different mineral rights in addition to coal, such as coalbed methane, natural gas and crude oil rights. Some of these minerals are located on, or are adjacent to, some of our coal and LBA areas, potentially creating conflicting interests between us and the lessees of those interests and may affect our ability to operate as planned if our title is not superior or cost-effective arrangements cannot be timely negotiated. We are regularly in negotiations with third parties in an effort to address potentially conflicting mineral development. These negotiations may not be effective. In that event, our mine plans, future costs and production rates may be adversely impacted. Anticipated oil and gas development is expected to increase the frequency of these potential conflicts. Further, the vast majority of our coal interests are acquired by lease from state or federal governments. If any of our leases are terminated, for lack of diligent development or otherwise, we would be unable to mine the affected coal and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Acquisitions are a potentially important part of our long-term growth strategy and involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits. Acquisitions are a potentially important part of our long-term growth strategy, and we may pursue acquisition opportunities in the future in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. If we fail to accurately estimate the future results and value of an acquired business or are unable to successfully integrate the businesses or properties we acquire, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, and we may be unable to grow our business. Acquisition transactions involve various risks, including: •uncertainties in assessing the strengths and potential profitability, and the related weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities, of acquisition candidates; •changes in business, industry, market or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the acquisition; •the inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition; •the potential loss of key customers, management or employees of an acquired business; •the nature and composition of the workforce, including the acquisition of a unionized workforce; •diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns; •regulatory challenges for completing and operating the acquired business, including opposition from environmental groups or regulatory agencies; •environmental or geological problems in acquired coal properties, including factors that make the coal unsuitable for intended customers due to ash, heat value, moisture or contaminants; •inability to acquire sufficient surface rights to enable extraction of coal resources; •outstanding permit violations associated with acquired assets; •difficulties or unexpected issues arising from our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting of the acquired business; •risks related to operating in new jurisdictions or industries, including increased exposure to foreign government and currency risks with respect to any international acquisitions; and •unanticipated liabilities associated with the acquired companies. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits we might anticipate from an acquisition. Moreover, any acquisition opportunities we pursue could materially increase our liquidity and capital resource needs and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. We may not be able to satisfy these liquidity and capital resource needs on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, future acquisitions could result in our assuming significant long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits or licenses necessary for our operations, which would materially reduce our production, cash flows and profitability. As a mining company, we must obtain a number of permits and licenses from various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies that impose strict regulations on environmental and operational matters in connection with our coal operations, including restricting the number of tons we may mine under our air quality permits. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by the regulators, all of which make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the continuance 29 Table of Contents of ongoing operations, impact the development of future mining operations or restrict the amount of our production. The public, including non-governmental organizations, anti-mining groups and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and EIS prepared in connection with applicable regulatory processes. These groups may also participate in the permitting and licensing process, including bringing citizens' lawsuits to challenge the issuance of permits, the validity of an EIS or performance of mining activities. For example, the EIS and other regulatory matters associated with the West Antelope II LBAs are being legally challenged by several non-governmental organizations, which could create a delay or uncertainty in acquiring the permit or mining the coal underlying the coal lease. If this or any other permits or licenses are not issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, or if permits issued or renewed are conditioned in a manner that restricts our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our mining activities, we could suffer a material reduction in our production, an impairment of our mineral rights, and our cash flows or profitability could be materially adversely affected. Existing and future legislation, treaties, regulatory requirements and public concerns relating to GHG emissions could negatively affect our customers and reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source, causing coal prices and sales of our coal to materially decline. There are three important sources of GHGs associated with the coal industry. The end use of our coal in electricity generation is a source of GHGs. Combustion of fuel for mining equipment used in coal production is another source of GHGs. In addition, coal mining can release methane, a GHG, directly into the atmosphere. These emissions from coal consumption and production are potentially subject to regulation as part of regulatory initiatives to address global climate change and global warming. Various international, federal, regional and state proposals are being considered to limit emissions of GHGs, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may, among other things establish a cap-and-trade regime, and regulation under existing environmental laws by the EPA and other regulatory agencies. Future regulation of GHG emissions may require additional controls on, or the closure of, coal-fired power plants and industrial boilers or may restrict the construction of new coal-fired power plants. These regulatory initiatives may increase our costs and decrease demand for our product, and may lead to increased demand for domestic electricity fired by natural gas because gas-fired plants are cheaper to construct, and permits to construct these plants can be easier to obtain. The permitting of new coal-fired power plants has also recently been contested, at times successfully, by state regulators and environmental organizations due to concerns related to GHG emissions from the new plants. Private litigation has also been brought against industry participants based on GHG-related concerns. The U.S. Supreme Court recently held that federal common law provides no basis for public nuisance claims against utilities due to their carbon dioxide emissions, but tort-type liabilities and other GHG-related claims against utilities and energy producers may be asserted. For example, residents and property owners along the Mississippi Gulf coast filed litigation against approximately 90 companies in energy, fossil fuels and chemical industries, including PRB and other domestic coal companies, alleging that the defendants caused the emission of GHGs that contributed to global warming, which in turn caused a rise in sea levels and added to the ferocity of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, which combined to destroy the plaintiffs' property. If this or other GHG-related litigation is successful, the coal industry and our company may be materially adversely impacted. See "Business—Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters—Global Climate Change." 30 Table of Contents Extensive environmental laws, including existing and potential future legislation, treaties and regulatory requirements relating to air emissions, affect our customers and could reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause coal prices and sales of our coal to materially decline. The operations of our customers are subject to extensive environmental regulation particularly with respect to air emissions. For example, CSAPR, if implemented as drafted, initially requires 28 states in the Midwest and eastern seaboard of the U.S. to significantly improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to ozone and/or fine particle pollution in other states. On December 30, 2011, the U.S Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit stayed the implementation of CSAPR pending resolution of judicial challenges to the rules and ordered the EPA to continue enforcing CAIR until the pending legal challenges have been resolved. CSAPR is one of a number of significant regulations that the EPA has issued or expects to issue that will impose more stringent requirements relating to air, water and waste controls on electric generating units. These rules include the EPA's pending new requirements for coal combustion residue ("CCR") management which may further regulate the handling of wastes from the combustion of coal. In addition, on December 16, 2011, the EPA signed a rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants. Specifically, these mercury and air toxic standards ("MATS") for power plants will reduce emissions from new and existing coal- and oil-fired electric utility steam generating units. We continue to evaluate the possible scenarios associated with CSAPR, CCR and MATS and the effects they may have on our business and our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Considerable uncertainty is associated with air emissions initiatives. New regulations are in the process of being developed, and many existing and potential regulatory initiatives are subject to review by federal or state agencies or the courts. Stringent air emissions limitations are either in place or are likely to be imposed in the short to medium term, and these limitations will likely require significant emissions control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants. As a result, these power plants may switch to other fuels that generate fewer of these emissions or may install more effective pollution control equipment that reduces the need for low-sulfur coal. Any switching of fuel sources away from coal, closure of existing coal-fired power plants, or reduced construction of new coal-fired power plants could have a material adverse effect on demand for, and prices received for, our coal. Alternatively, less stringent air emissions limitations, particularly related to sulfur, to the extent enacted, could make low-sulfur coal less attractive, which could also have a material adverse effect on the demand for, and prices received for, our coal. See "Business—Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters—Clean Air Act." Our mining operations are subject to extensive environmental, health, safety or other laws and regulations that could materially increase our costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. Our mining operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental, health and safety, transportation, labor and other laws and regulations. Examples include those relating to: •employee health and safety; •emissions to air and discharges to water; •plant and wildlife protection, including the potential classification of the sage-grouse and the mountain plover as endangered or threatened species; •the reclamation and restoration of properties after mining or other activity has been completed; •remediation of contaminated soil, surface and groundwater; and •the effects of operations on surface water and groundwater quality and availability. 31 Table of Contents Furthermore, we must compensate employees for work-related injuries through our workers' compensation insurance funds. The erosion through tort liability of the protections we are currently provided by workers' compensation laws could increase our liability for work-related injuries. The April 2010 explosion at Massey Energy Company's Upper Big Branch Mine has had significant impacts on the regulation of mine safety matters at the federal and state levels. For example, federal authorities have announced special inspections of coal mines to evaluate several safety concerns, including the accumulation of coal dust and the proper ventilation of gases such as methane. In addition, federal authorities have announced that they are considering changes to mine safety rules and regulations which could potentially result in additional or enhanced required safety equipment, more frequent mine inspections, stricter and more thorough enforcement practices and enhanced reporting requirements. Any new environmental, health and safety requirements may be replicated in the states in which we operate and could increase our operating costs or otherwise prevent, delay or reduce our planned production, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with complying with these requirements are often significant and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. New legislation or administrative regulations or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations may also require us to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. For example, on November 17, 2011, several environmental groups sued the EPA in Washington federal court to compel the EPA to include coal mines on the list of stationary sources governed by air pollution performance standards. Any imposition of air emission standards on coal mines or any other such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the extensive regulatory environment in which we operate, we cannot assure complete compliance with all laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws may result in significant costs to us to correct such violations, as well as civil or criminal penalties and limitations or shutdowns of our operations. Federal and state regulatory agencies have the authority to order any of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' demands. Federal and state regulatory agencies have the authority following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed. If this were to occur, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re-open the mine. In the event that these agencies order the closing of our mines, our coal sales contracts may permit us to issue force majeure notices, which suspend our obligations to deliver coal under these contracts. However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re-open the mines and/or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of time for delivery or terminate customers' contracts. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations may affect the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, any of which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations use hazardous materials and generate hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. In addition, many of the locations that we own, lease or operate were used for coal mining and/or 32 Table of Contents involved the generation, use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances either before or after we were involved with these locations. We may be subject to claims under federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages, as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater and other media. These claims may arise, for example, out of current or former conditions at sites that we own, lease or operate currently, as well as at sites that we or predecessor entities owned, leased or operated in the past, and at contaminated third-party sites at which we have disposed of hazardous substances and waste. As a matter of law, and despite any contractual indemnity or allocation arrangements or acquisition agreements to the contrary, our liability for these claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of any contamination, or even for the entire share. We may incur material costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damage to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs and liabilities in respect of these matters, our mining operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Significant increases in taxes we pay on the coal we produce, such as royalties or severance and production taxes, including as a result of governmental audits, could materially adversely affect our profitability. We pay federal, state and private royalties and federal, state and county severance and production taxes on the coal we sell. A substantial portion of our royalties and severance and production taxes are levied as a percentage of gross revenues with the remaining levied on a per ton basis. For example, we pay production royalties of 12.5% of gross proceeds to the federal government. We incurred royalties and severance and production taxes which represented 29.2% and 30.5% of proceeds from the coal we sold for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The calculations used to determine royalty or severance and production tax payments are complex and subject to interpretation, making it difficult to estimate such payments. If royalties or severance and production tax rates were to significantly increase our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For example, the Wyoming state severance tax is significantly less than the state severance tax in Montana. If Wyoming were to increase this tax or any other tax applicable to our Wyoming operations, our profitability could be reduced and our results of operations negatively affected. In addition, if we are required to make additional payments (including related interest and penalties) as a result of pending or future governmental audits, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. Failure to maintain our surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and materially adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. Federal and state laws require us to secure the performance of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure costs, reclamation costs, and federal and state workers' compensation costs, including black lung. The primary methods we use to meet those obligations are to provide a third-party surety bond or a letter of credit. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding surety bonds with third parties of $568.1 million. Surety bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral, unfavorable terms or higher fees upon those renewals. Our failure to retain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds or letters of credit or to provide a suitable alternative could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal, which would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms, the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety bonds and restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of any credit arrangements then in place. Furthermore, while we have maintained a history of timely payments related to our LBAs, if we are unable to maintain our "good payer" status, we would be required to seek bonding for any 33 Table of Contents remaining payments, which could adversely impact our cash flows and the amount of availability under our credit facility, if such bonds could be obtained at all. In addition, if federal or state laws are amended to require certain forms of financial assurance other than surety bonds, such as letters of credit, obtaining them, if we could obtain them at all, could have a material negative impact on our liquidity and results of operations. The availability and reliability of sufficient transportation capacity and increases in transportation costs could materially adversely affect the demand for our coal or impair our ability to supply coal to our domestic and export customers. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our domestic and export customers. The cost and availability of transportation is a key factor in a customer's purchasing decision and impacts our coal sales and the price we receive for our coal. Coal could become a less competitive source of energy if the costs of transportation increase or the availability or capacity of rail lines or export terminals is insufficient. Transportation costs and availability could also make our coal less competitive than coal produced from other regions. Our ability to sell coal to our customers depends primarily upon third-party rail systems and export terminals. If our customers are unable to obtain transportation services, or to do so on a cost-effective basis, our business and growth strategy could be adversely affected. Alternative transportation and delivery systems are generally inadequate and not suitable to handle the quantity of our shipments or to ensure timely delivery to our customers. Export terminals are also subject to permit requirements and challenges from environmental organizations which may make it complicated or expensive to expand existing terminal capacity or open new export terminals in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, much of the PRB is served by two rail carriers, and the northern PRB is only serviced by one rail carrier. The loss of access to rail capacity in the PRB could create temporary disruption until this access was restored; significantly impairing our ability to supply coal and resulting in materially decreased revenues. Similarly, being denied access to an export terminal could significantly affect our export sales, materially decreasing our revenues. Our ability to open new mines or expand existing mines may also be affected by the access to, and availability and cost of rail, export terminal or other transportation systems available for servicing these mines. Typically, our coal customers contract for, and pay directly for, transportation of coal from the mine or port to the point of use. However, our export deals require us to enter into transportation agreements pursuant to which we arrange for rail transport and port charges. Our ability to supply coal to our customers and our customers' ability to take our coal may be impacted by the disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems; mechanical difficulties; maintenance shut-downs; environmental, political and regulatory issues; train derailment; bridge or structural concerns; infrastructure damage, whether caused by ground instability, accidents or otherwise; strikes; lock-outs; lack of fuel or maintenance items; fuel costs; accidents; terrorism or domestic catastrophe or other events. For example, in the spring and summer of 2011, the Midwest region experienced severe flooding which disrupted rail service to mines in the PRB and affected the ability of those customers who were impacted by the flooding to take coal deliveries. Any similar disruption in the future could negatively impact our results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital expenditures, which we may be unable to provide. Our business plan and strategy are dependent upon our acquisitions of additional reserves, which require substantial capital expenditures. We also require capital for, among other purposes: •acquisition of surface rights; •equipment and the development of our mining operations; 34 Table of Contents •capital renovations; •maintenance and expansions of plants and equipment; and •compliance with environmental laws and regulations. To the extent that cash on hand, cash generated internally and cash available under our credit facility are not sufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, additional debt or equity financing may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. Additionally, our debt instruments may restrict our ability to obtain such financing. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to maintain or increase our existing production rates and we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or change our business strategy, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. If the assumptions underlying our reclamation and mine closure obligations are materially inaccurate, our costs could be significantly greater than anticipated. SMCRA and counterpart state laws and regulations establish operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and final mine closure. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our experience. Estimates of reclamation liability at the Decker mine are provided to us by the Decker mine. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future asset retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins of third-party contractors, inflation rates, discount rates and assumed credit-adjusted, risk-free rates. Furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. If our accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be materially adversely affected. We do not operate the Decker mine and our results of operations could be adversely affected if the other 50% owner fails to effectively operate the mine or fails to perform its obligations. In addition, our credit arrangements may limit our ability to contribute cash to the Decker mine. We hold a 50% non-operating interest in the Decker mine in Montana through a joint venture agreement with the other 50% owner. The other 50% mine owner has responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Decker mine. While we participate in the management committee of the Decker mine under the terms of the joint venture agreement, we do not control, and our employees do not participate in, the day-to-day operations of the Decker mine. If the other 50% mine owner fails to operate the Decker mine effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We share the profits, losses, operating expenses, reclamation obligations and liabilities and assets associated with the Decker mine equally with the other 50% owner and may be required to contribute cash or other property and equipment and our proportional share of funds to carry on the business of the joint venture or to cover liabilities. In the event that either 50% owner does not contribute its share of operating expenses, including reclamation expenses when due, or other liabilities, the other owner is not required to assume their obligation. However, we may have joint and several liability as a matter of law for these expenses and other liabilities, including for operational liabilities. Accordingly, our financial obligations with respect to the Decker mine are subject to the creditworthiness of the other 50% owner, which is outside of our control. In addition, if we do not provide our proportional share or the other 50% owner does not provide its proportional share, our interest in the Decker mine may be adjusted proportionally. CPE Resources's current debt instruments and future credit arrangements may limit our ability to make contributions to the Decker joint venture. 35 Table of Contents Increases in the cost of raw materials and other industrial supplies, or the inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of those supplies, could increase our operating expenses, disrupt or delay our production and materially adversely affect our profitability. We use considerable quantities of explosives, petroleum-based fuels, tires, steel and other raw materials, as well as spare parts and other consumables in the mining process. If the prices of steel, explosives, tires, petroleum products or other materials increase significantly or if the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to foreign currencies with respect to certain imported supplies or other products, our operating expenses will increase, which could materially adversely impact our profitability. Additionally, a limited number of suppliers exist for certain supplies, such as explosives and tires, as well as certain mining equipment, and any of our suppliers may divert their products to buyers in other mines or industries or divert their raw materials to produce other products that have a higher profit margin. For example, we previously experienced a severe tire shortage in 2005 that lasted several years. This tire shortage increased the direct cost of tires and caused us to change our operating practices to increase tire life. Shortages in raw materials used in the manufacturing of supplies and mining equipment, which, in some cases, do not have ready substitutes, or the cancellation of our supply contracts under which we obtain these raw materials and other consumables, could limit our ability to obtain these supplies or equipment. As a result, we may not be able to acquire adequate replacements for these supplies or equipment on a cost-effective basis or at all, which could also materially increase our operating expenses or halt, disrupt or delay our production. Furthermore, operating expenses at our mining locations are sensitive to changes in certain variable costs, particularly diesel fuel prices, which is our largest variable cost after personnel costs. Our profitability depends on our ability to adequately control our costs, particularly with respect to diesel fuel. Historically, we have not entered into hedge or other arrangements to offset the market price volatility of diesel fuel prices. Any increase in the price we pay for diesel fuel will have a negative impact on our results of operations. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cost of Product Sold" in Item 7 and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Commodity Price Risks" in Item 7A. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not accounted for as a hedge could cause volatility in our earnings. From time to time, we may enter into certain derivative financial instruments to help manage our exposure to future coal prices, particularly export coal prices. Derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. Changes in fair value are recognized either in earnings or equity, depending on whether the transaction qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, and if so, how effective the derivatives are at offsetting price movements in the underlying exposure. To the extent these derivative financial instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting or we choose not to designate them for hedge accounting, we are required to record changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments in our Consolidated Statement of Operations, resulting in increased volatility in our income in future periods. In addition, to the extent that we hedge our exposure to future coal prices, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases. Inaccuracies in our estimates of our coal reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues or higher than expected costs. We base our estimates of reserves on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our internal geologists and engineers, which are reviewed by an independent consultant every two years. Our estimates of proven and probable coal reserves as to both quantity and quality are updated annually to reflect the production of coal from the reserves, updated geological models and mining recovery data, the tonnage contained in new lease areas acquired and estimated costs of 36 Table of Contents production and sales prices. There are numerous factors and assumptions inherent in estimating the quantities and qualities of, and costs to mine, coal reserves, any one of which may vary considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions include: •coal characteristics such as Btu and sulfur content; •geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine; •future coal prices; •equipment and productivity; •operating costs, including for critical supplies such as fuel, tires and explosives; •capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs; •the percentage of coal ultimately recoverable; •the effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, and taxes, including severance and production taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies; and •timing for the development of the reserves. Any changes to the above factors and assumptions could cause our estimates of the quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal to vary significantly. Changes to the above factors and assumptions could also materially impact how we classify our reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties. Actual production recovered from identified reserve areas and properties, and revenues and expenditures associated with our mining operations, may vary materially from estimates. Any inaccuracy in our proven and probable reserves estimates could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues and/or higher than expected costs. The majority of our coal sales contracts are forward sales contracts at fixed prices, which may not reflect favorable then-existing prices for coal or may affect our profitability if we cannot adequately control the costs of production for coal underlying such contracts. We have historically sold most of our coal under long-term coal sales agreements, which we generally define as contracts with a term of one to five years. For the year ended December 31, 2011 approximately 81% of our revenues were derived from coal sales that were made under long-term coal sales agreements. The prices for coal sold under these agreements are typically fixed for an agreed amount of time. Pricing in some of these contracts is subject to certain adjustments in later years or under certain circumstances, and may be below the current market price for similar type coal at any given time, depending on the time frame of the contract. As a consequence of the substantial volume of our forward sales, our ability to capitalize on near term rises in coal prices is limited. We have less coal available to sell under short-term contracts or on the spot market and we similarly have fewer tons to commit under long-term contracts at higher prices. Our ability to realize higher prices is also restricted if customers elect to purchase additional volumes of coal, which is allowable under some contracts, at contract prices that are lower than spot prices. Furthermore, to the extent our costs increase but pricing under our long-term coal sales contracts remains fixed, we may be unable to pass such increasing costs on to our customers. If we are unable to control our costs, our profitability may be negatively impacted, adversely affecting our results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Changes in purchasing patterns in the coal industry may make it difficult for us to enter into new contracts with customers, or do so on favorable terms, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In past years, we have experienced customers being less willing to enter into long-term coal sales contracts as they continue to adjust to increased price volatility, increased fungibility of coal products, frequently changing regulations and the increasing deregulation of their industry. In addition, the prices for coal in the spot market may be lower than the prices previously set under many of our long-term coal sales agreements. As our contracts with customers expire or are otherwise renegotiated, our customers may be less willing to extend or enter into new long-term coal sales agreements under their existing or similar pricing terms or our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past. To the extent our customers shift away from long-term supply contracts, it will be more difficult to predict our future sales. As a result, we may not have a market for our future production at acceptable prices. The prices we receive in the spot market may be less than the contractual price an electric utility is willing to pay for a committed supply. Furthermore, spot market prices tend to be more volatile than contractual prices, which could result in decreased revenues and profitability. We are exposed to counterparty risk with our customers, trading partners, financial institutions, and other parties with whom we conduct business. We face an increased risk that we do not receive payment for coal sold and delivered if the creditworthiness of any of our counterparties deteriorates or if any of our counterparties become subject to bankruptcy proceedings. The creditworthiness of these counterparties depends on any number of factors, including the economic volatility and tightening of credit markets, and deregulation of the U.S. utilities markets, allowing utilities to sell their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. Competition with other coal suppliers could cause us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk of payment default. We have contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering companies, under which they purchase the coal for their own account or resell to domestic and foreign end users. If the creditworthiness of these energy trading and brokering companies declines, this would increase the risk that we may not be able to collect payment for all coal sold and delivered to or on behalf of those companies. Furthermore, if any of these companies seek to renegotiate or cancel sales of coal because of fluctuations in spot prices for coal, issues with their end users accepting the coal or other factors, we may be unable to sell previously anticipated volumes of coal at favorable prices or at all. We also enter into derivative financial instruments with a number of financial institutions. If one or more of these institutions were to default on its future obligation to us, our cash flows and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In certain circumstances we may be entitled to demand credit enhancements or withhold shipments of coal from these parties if we determine they are not creditworthy. However, these protections may be insufficient to cover our risks or could cause us to resell the coal on the spot market at unfavorable prices or not at all. We have significant cash balances, which we may invest from time to time in marketable securities issued by various counterparties including the U.S. government and U.S. government sponsored entities, municipal entities, financial institutions and other corporations. If any of these counterparties fail, we could lose the principal invested with such counterparties, which would materially adversely impact our business, liquidity, and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Certain provisions in our coal sales contracts may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions or may result in economic penalties or suspension upon a failure to meet contractual requirements. Price adjustment, "price reopener" and other similar provisions in our long-term supply contracts may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility traditionally provided by these contracts. Most of our domestic sales and some of our international contracts contain provisions that allow for the base price of our coal to be adjusted due to new statutes, ordinances or regulations that affect our costs related to performance. Because these provisions only apply to the base price of coal, these terms may provide only limited protection due to changes in regulations. Some of our domestic sales contracts also contain provisions that allow for the purchase price to be renegotiated at periodic intervals. A price re-opener provision is one in which either party can renegotiate the price of the contract, sometimes at pre-determined times. Index provisions allow for the adjustment of the price based on a fixed formula. These provisions may reduce the protection available under long-term contracts from short-term coal price volatility. Our international contracts typically contain a fixed price for the first year of the contract with future years' prices to be negotiated at a specific point in time. If the parties fail to satisfactorily negotiate a price, the contract could be terminated. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price, or a termination of the contract, could result in decreased revenues. Our domestic coal sales agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or our customers during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. As a result of the economic downturn, a greater than normal number of our customers in 2009 sought to reduce the amount of tons delivered to them under our coal sales agreements through contractual remedies, such as force majeure provisions. Our domestic coal sales agreements also typically allow our customers to suspend performance in the event that the railroad fails to provide its services due to circumstances that would constitute a force majeure. In addition, our international contracts generally contain a clause that requires us to pay the demurrage fee charged by the vessel for delays in shipping the coal on behalf of our foreign customers. Most of our coal sales agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal within certain ranges for specific coal characteristics, such as heat content, sulfur, ash and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications can result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, suspension, rejection or cancellation of deliveries or termination of the contracts. A number of our contracts also contain clauses which, in some cases, may allow customers to terminate the contract in the event of certain changes in environmental laws and regulations. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of any of our key senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business unless and until we find a qualified replacement. A limited number of persons exist with the requisite experience and skills to serve in our senior management positions. We may not be able to locate or employ qualified executives on acceptable terms and our failure to retain or attract qualified executives could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment also requires skilled laborers in multiple disciplines such as electricians, equipment operators, mechanics, engineers and welders, among others. We have from time to time encountered shortages for these types of skilled labor and typically compete for such positions with other industries, including oil and gas. If we experience shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may utilize a greater number of external contractors for portions of our operations. The costs of these contractors have historically been higher than that of our employed 39 Table of Contents laborers. If our labor and contractor prices increase, or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our employees, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our work force could become unionized in the future, which could negatively impact the stability of our production and materially reduce our profitability. All of our mines, other than the Decker mine, which we do not operate, are operated by non-union employees. Our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union, and in the past, unions have conducted limited organizing activities in this regard. If our employees choose to form or affiliate with a union and the terms of a union collective bargaining agreement are significantly different from our current compensation and job assignment arrangements with our employees, these arrangements could negatively impact the stability of our production and materially reduce our profitability. In addition, even if our managed operations remain non-union, our business may still be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies or unionized transportation and service providers. We hold a 50% non-operating interest in the Decker mine, which has union members. These union-represented employees could strike, which could adversely affect production at the Decker mine, increase its costs and disrupt shipments of coal from the Decker mine to its customers, all of which could materially adversely affect its results and the value of our investment in the Decker joint venture. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or acts of war may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity or acts of war may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could negatively impact our business. Furthermore, any such acts which directly affect our customers and their business may have negative consequences to our own operations. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets and transportation assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the U.S. Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including from delays or losses in transportation, decreased sales of our coal or extended collections from customers that are unable to timely pay us in accordance with the terms of their supply agreement. We face the risk of systems failures as well as security risks, including "hacking." The computer systems and network infrastructure we and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third-party service providers. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. In addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. At December 31, 2011, we had $600 million of senior notes outstanding and approximately $294.9 million of other long-term obligations incurred in connection with land acquisitions and federal 40 Table of Contents coal lease payments. In addition, at December 31, 2011, $10.5 million of capacity under our $500 million revolving credit facility was being used for letters of credit securing our reclamation obligations reducing the capacity under the revolving credit facility to $489.5 million. Our outstanding indebtedness could have important consequences such as: •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, such as mergers and acquisitions; working capital; capital expenditures; debt service requirements; LBA payments or other cash requirements; •requiring much of our cash flow to be dedicated to interest obligations and making it unavailable for other purposes; •with respect to any indebtedness under the revolving credit facility or other variable rate debt, exposing us to the risk of increased interest costs if the underlying interest rates rise on our variable rate debt; •limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business (including to obtain new LBAs or make capital expenditures) due to debt service requirements; •causing us to need to sell assets and properties at an inopportune time; •limiting our ability to compete effectively with companies that are not as leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; •limiting our ability to acquire new coal reserves and/or LBAs and plant and equipment needed to conduct operations; and •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and general economic and market conditions. We may incur substantially more debt in the future. If our indebtedness is further increased, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could increase. Moreover, these risks also apply to certain of CPE Resources's domestic restricted subsidiaries that are guarantors of CPE Resources's indebtedness and may apply to CPE Inc. directly if CPE Inc. becomes a guarantor of CPE Resources's debt in the future. In addition to the principal repayments on outstanding debt, we have other demands on our cash resources, including significant maintenance and other capital expenditures, including LBAs, and operating expenses, as well as required payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement (See "Risk Factors—Other Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Common Stock"). Our ability to pay our debt depends upon our operating performance. In particular, economic conditions could cause revenues to decline, and hamper our ability to repay indebtedness. If we do not have enough cash to satisfy our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell assets, limit certain capital expenditures, including LBAs, or reduce spending or we may be required to issue equity. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt or sell assets and we may not be able to, at any given time, issue equity, in either case on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to comply with the covenants or restrictions contained in our debt instruments, the lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under those instruments to be due and payable, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our debt instruments include covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other restricted payments, create liens on assets, make investments, loans or advances, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. The debt instruments also require compliance with various financial covenants. Because CPE Resources (which entered into the debt instruments) is our only direct operating subsidiary, complying with these restrictions and covenants may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would help us to grow our business. These restrictions could limit our 41 Table of Contents ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. A failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants could have serious consequences to our financial condition or result in a default under those debt instruments and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these debt instruments and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Furthermore, an event of default or an acceleration under one of our debt instruments could also cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt instrument or contractual obligation, which would adversely impact our liquidity. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. We may not be granted waivers or amendments to these debt instruments if for any reason we are unable to comply with these debt instruments, and we may not be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Provisions in our debt instruments could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a "change in control" as defined in the indenture, holders of the senior notes have the right to require us to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. Furthermore, a "change in control" as defined in our credit facility is considered an event of default. These provisions could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. Other Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Common Stock We are required to pay RTEA for most of the tax benefits we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we received in connection with the IPO, related IPO structuring transactions and Secondary Offering. In certain cases, payments to RTEA may be accelerated or exceed our actual cash tax savings. These provisions may deter a change in control of our company. In connection with the IPO and the acquisition of our membership units of CPE Resources, we entered into the Tax Receivable Agreement with RTEA that requires us to pay to RTEA 85% of the amount of cash tax savings, if any, that we realize as a result of the increases in tax basis that we obtained in connection with the initial acquisition of our interest in CPE Resources, our subsequent acquisition of RTEA's remaining units in CPE Resources, as well as payments made by us under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Due to the size of the increases in the tax basis of our share of CPE Resources's tangible and intangible assets, as well as the increase in our basis in the equity of CPE Resources's subsidiaries and assets held by those subsidiaries, we expect to make substantial payments to RTEA under the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result of our 2010 acquisition of RTEA's remaining units in CPE Resources, we received a further step-up in our tax basis and, accordingly, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement to pay RTEA 85% of any benefits we receive as a result of such further step-up significantly increased. Our obligation may further increase if there are changes in law, including the increase of current corporate income tax rates. The payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not conditioned upon RTEA's or its affiliate's ownership of an interest in CPE Resources or our available cash resources. Based on the tax basis of our assets as of December 31, 2011 and CPE Resources's operating plan, the future payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are estimated to be approximately $170.6 million in the aggregate and are estimated to be payable over the next 32 years. This estimate is based on assumptions related to our business that could change, and the actual payments could differ materially from this estimate. Payments would be greater if we generate income significantly in excess of the amounts used in our operating plan, for example, because we acquire additional coal assets beyond our existing coal reserve base, and as a result, we realize the full tax benefit of such increased tax basis (or an increased portion thereof). 42 Table of Contents Certain changes in control require us to make payments to RTEA, which could exceed our actual cash savings and could require us to provide credit support. If we undergo a change in control other than a change in control caused by RTEA and we do not otherwise elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement as discussed below, payments to RTEA under the Tax Receivable Agreement will continue on a yearly basis but will be based on an agreed upon set of assumptions. In this case, our assumed cash tax savings, and consequently our payments due under the Tax Receivable Agreement, could exceed our actual cash tax savings each year by material amounts. If we undergo such a change in control and our credit rating is impaired, we will be required to obtain credit support with regard to all remaining payments under the agreement. The change in control provisions may deter a potential sale of our company to a third party and may otherwise make it less likely a third party would enter into a change in control transaction with us. Certain asset transfers outside the ordinary course of our business may require us to make additional or accelerated payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition to our obligations to make payments to RTEA with respect to our actual cash tax savings, if CPE Resources sells any asset with a gross value greater than $10 million outside the ordinary course of its business in a wholly or partially taxable transaction, we will be required to make yearly payments to RTEA equal to RTEA's deemed cost of financing its accelerated tax liabilities with respect to such sale, and after such asset sales, we will be required to make certain adjustments to the calculation of our actual cash tax savings for taxable years following sales. These adjustments could result in an acceleration of our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, our debt instruments contain limitations on CPE Resources's ability to make distributions, which could affect our ability to meet these payment obligations. These limitations on CPE Resources's ability to make distributions may limit our ability to engage in certain taxable asset sales or dispositions outside the ordinary course of our business. Default under the Tax Receivable Agreement will permit RTEA to accelerate our obligations. If we default on our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement (including by reason of insufficient cash distributions from CPE Resources), such default will permit RTEA to enforce its rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement, including by acceleration of our obligations thereunder. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and, therefore, the payments expected to be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement, depends upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service could challenge one or more of our tax positions relevant to the Tax Receivable Agreement and a court could sustain such a challenge. Such a challenge could result in a decrease in our tax benefits, as well as our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. We must obtain RTEA's consent prior to settlement of any such challenge if it may affect RTEA's rights and obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Our previous separation from Rio Tinto could subject us and our stockholders to any number of risks and uncertainties. Prior to the IPO in November 2009, we were an indirectly held, wholly-owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto. As a result, the CPE Inc. directors at that time owed a fiduciary duty solely to Rio Tinto in its capacity as the sole owner of CPE Inc. and did not owe a fiduciary duty to our post-IPO stockholders. Upon the effectiveness of the IPO in November 2009, Rio Tinto's ownership of CPE Inc. was terminated and, as of that date, those directors no longer owe a fiduciary duty to Rio Tinto. Our historical financial information for all periods prior to the IPO included in this Form 10-K was derived from the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto and also includes allocations of certain general and administrative costs and Rio Tinto's headquarters costs. These expenses are estimates and were based on what we and Rio Tinto considered to be reasonable allocations of the historical costs incurred by Rio Tinto to provide these services required in support of our business. As 43 Table of Contents a separate, stand-alone public company, our cost structure is different and is not reflective of our financial position, results of operations or cash flows or costs had we been a separate, stand-alone public company during all of the periods presented. Furthermore, we entered into various agreements with Rio Tinto and its affiliates in connection with the IPO and separation from Rio Tinto. CPE Resources agreed to indemnify Rio Tinto for certain losses pursuant to these agreements. Because these agreements were entered into while we were part of Rio Tinto, some of the terms of these agreements are likely less favorable to us than similar agreements negotiated between unaffiliated third parties. Third parties may also seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Rio Tinto that we did not assume in connection with the IPO and for which Rio Tinto agreed to indemnify us, including liabilities related to the Jacobs Ranch and Colowyo mines, as well as the uranium mining venture that we do not own. If those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we may not be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Rio Tinto. Refer to the applicable exhibits listed in Item 15 of this Form 10-K for the complete terms and conditions of the principal outstanding agreements with Rio Tinto entered into in connection with our 2009 IPO. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In 2009, as a new public company, we identified previously disclosed material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Such material weaknesses were remediated; however, we continue to be subject to a number of requirements as a public company, including the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and the listing standards of New York Stock Exchange. These requirements have placed significant demands on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, and also requires that our internal control over financial reporting be assessed by management and, for CPE Inc., attested to by our auditors as of December 31 of each year. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. As a result, our management's attention might be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we experience a material weakness, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, particularly if such weakness results in a restatement of our financial results, and our stock price could decline. CPE Inc. is a holding company with no direct operations of its own and depends on distributions from CPE Resources to meet its ongoing obligations. CPE Inc. is a holding company with no direct operations of its own and has no independent ability to generate revenue. Consequently, its ability to obtain operating funds depends upon distributions from CPE Resources and payments under the management services agreement. Pursuant to its management services agreement, CPE Resources makes payments to CPE Inc. in the form of a management fee and cost reimbursements to fund CPE Inc.'s day-to-day operating expenses, such as payroll for its officers. However, if CPE Resources cannot make the payments pursuant to the management services agreement, CPE Inc. may be unable to cover these expenses. The distribution of cash flows by CPE Resources to CPE Inc. is subject to statutory restrictions under the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and contractual restrictions under CPE Resources's debt instruments that may limit the ability of CPE Resources to make distributions. In addition, any distributions and payments of fees or costs are subject to CPE Resources's financial condition. 44 Table of Contents As the sole member of CPE Resources, CPE Inc. incurs income taxes on any net taxable income of CPE Resources. The debt instruments allow CPE Resources to distribute cash in amounts sufficient for CPE Inc. to pay its tax liabilities payable to any governmental entity, and, in the ordinary course of business, CPE Inc.'s obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement, if any. To the extent CPE Inc. needs funds for any other purpose, and CPE Resources is unable to provide such funds for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Our stock price could be volatile and could decline for a variety of reasons, resulting in a substantial loss on your investment and negatively impacting our ability to raise equity capital in the future. Significant price fluctuations in CPE Inc.'s common stock could result from a variety of factors, including, among other things, actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or financial condition, new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations impacting our business or our customers' businesses, sales of CPE Inc.'s common stock by our stockholders or by us, a downgrade or cessation in coverage from one or more of our analysts, broad market fluctuations and general economic conditions and any other factors described in this "Risk Factors" section of this Form 10-K. A decline in the trading price of CPE Inc.'s common stock due to any future sales of stock or the issuance or exercise of equity-based awards under our Long Term Incentive Plan or sales to cover taxes owed upon vesting of awards, or due to other factors might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of CPE Inc.'s common stock or other equity securities and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and other aspects of our structure may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may adversely affect the trading price of CPE Inc.'s common stock. Certain provisions in CPE Inc.'s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and other aspects of our structure may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or a change in control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Among other things, CPE Inc.'s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: •provide for a classified board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; •authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; •do not provide for cumulative voting; •provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; •limit the calling of special meetings of stockholders; •provide that stockholders may not act by written consent; •provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; •require supermajority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws; and •require stockholders to provide advance notice of new business proposals and director nominations under specific procedures. 45 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 