ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, growth prospects and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business and Strategy We have a limited operating history and number of commercialized products, have incurred significant losses to date and anticipate continuing to incur losses in the future, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We are an early stage company with a limited operating history, and we only recently began commercializing our products. We have incurred operating losses since our inception in June 2006, and we expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $105.4 million and $75.6 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we had a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $29.9 million, $40.8 million and $13.2 million, respectively. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. If our revenues grow slower than anticipated, or if operating expenses exceed expectations, then we may not be able to achieve profitability in the near future or at all, which may depress our stock price. Through December 31, 2013, we have derived substantially all of our revenues from sales of Regalia and Grandevo. In addition, we have derived revenues from strategic collaboration and development agreements for the achievement of testing validation, regulatory progress and commercialization events, and from sales of other products. Accordingly, there is only a limited basis upon which to evaluate our business and prospects. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to market and sell other products, as well as our ability to increase sales of Regalia, Grandevo and Zequanox. An investor in our stock should consider the challenges, expenses, and difficulties we will face as a company seeking to develop and manufacture new types of products in a relatively established market. We expect to derive future revenues primarily from sales of Regalia, Grandevo, Zequanox and other products, but we cannot guarantee the magnitude of such sales, if any. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to expand our research and development activities, further increase manufacturing capabilities and expand our sales and marketing activities for the further commercialization of Regalia, Grandevo, Zequanox and other product candidates. We expect to incur additional losses for the next several years and may never become profitable. Our products are in the early stages of commercialization, and our business may fail if we are not able to successfully generate significant revenues from these products. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to commercialize the bio-based pest management and plant health product candidates we are developing. Our initial sales of our latest formulation of Regalia and our initial formulation of Grandevo occurred in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2011, respectively, and we began selling Zequanox in the second half of 2012. Our ability to generate significant revenues from Zequanox is dependent on our ability to persuade customers to evaluate the costs of our Zequanox products compared to the overall cost of the chlorine treatment process, the primary current alternative to using Zequanox, rather than the cost of purchasing chemicals alone. Sales of Zequanox have also remained lower than our other products due to the length of the treatment cycle, the longer sales cycle (the bidding process with utility companies occurs on a yearly or multi-year basis) and the unique nature of the treatment approach for each customer based on the extent of the infestation and the design of the facility. Our near-term development focus is on Venerate, which received EPA approval in February 2014, Opportune, which received EPA approval in April 2012, and MBI-505, MBI-110 and MBI-303 for plant health. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we have identified over 25 additional product candidates using our proprietary discovery process, and we currently are focusing our development and commercialization efforts on five of these product candidates. 29 Table of Contents Successful development of our product candidates will require significant additional investment, including costs associated with research and development, completing field trials and obtaining regulatory approval, as well as the ability to manufacture our products in large quantities at acceptable costs while also preserving high product quality. Difficulties often encountered in scaling up production include problems involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, production costs and process controls. In addition, we are subject to inherent risks associated with new products and technologies. These risks include the possibility that any product candidate may: • be found unsafe; • be ineffective or less effective than anticipated; • fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • be difficult to competitively price relative to alternative pest management solutions; • be harmful to consumers, growers, farm workers or the environment; • be harmful to crops when used in connection with conventional chemical pesticides; • be difficult or impossible to manufacture on an economically viable scale; • be subject to supply chain constraints for raw materials; • fail to be developed and accepted by the market prior to the successful marketing of similar products by competitors; • be impossible to market because it infringes on the proprietary rights of third parties; or • be too expensive for commercial use. Adverse weather conditions and other natural conditions can reduce acreage planted or incidence of crop disease or pest infestations, which can adversely affect our results of operations. Production of the crops on which our products are typically applied is vulnerable to extreme weather conditions such as heavy rains, hurricanes, hail, floods, tornadoes, freezing conditions, drought, fires and floods. Weather conditions can be impacted by climate change resulting from global warming, including changes in precipitation patterns and the increased frequency of extreme weather events, or other factors. Unfavorable weather conditions can reduce both acreage planted and incidence (or timing) of certain crop diseases or pest infestations, each of which may reduce demand for our products. For example, in 2012, the United States experienced nationwide abnormally low rainfall or drought, reducing the incidence of fungal diseases such as mildews, and these conditions have continued to be present in some of our key markets, such as California. We believe these conditions have reduced industry-wide sales of fungicides in 2013 and 2012 relative to prior years, inhibiting growth in sales of Regalia, a biofungicide, and will affect sales of Regalia in California in 2014. These factors have created and can continue to create substantial volatility relating to our business and results of operations. If our ongoing or future field trials are unsuccessful, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of, or commercialize, our products on a timely basis. The successful completion of multiple field trials in domestic and foreign locations on various crops and water infrastructures is critical to the success of our product development and marketing efforts. If our ongoing or future field trials are unsuccessful or produce inconsistent results or unanticipated adverse side effects on crops or on non-target organisms, or if we are unable to collect reliable data, regulatory approval of our products could be delayed or we may be unable to commercialize our products. In addition, more than one growing or treatment season may be required to collect sufficient data and we may need to collect data from different geographies to prove performance for customer adoption. Although we have conducted successful field trials on a broad range of crops, we cannot be certain that additional field trials conducted on a greater number of acres, or on crops for which we have not yet conducted field trials, will be successful. Moreover, the results of our ongoing and future 30 Table of Contents field trials are subject to a number of conditions beyond our control, including weather-related events such as drought or floods, severe heat or frost, hail, tornadoes and hurricanes. Generally, we pay third parties such as growers, consultants and universities, to conduct field tests on our behalf. Incompatible crop treatment practices or misapplication of our products by these third parties could impair the success of our field trials. Our inability to obtain regulatory approvals, or to comply with ongoing and changing regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent sales of the products we are developing and commercializing. The field testing, manufacture, sale and use of pest management products, including Regalia, Grandevo, Zequanox and other products we are developing, are extensively regulated by the EPA and state, local and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations substantially increase the time and cost associated with bringing our products to market. If we do not receive the necessary governmental approvals to test, manufacture and market our products, or if regulatory authorities revoke our approvals, do not grant approvals in a timely manner or grant approvals subject to restrictions on their use, we may be unable to sell our products in the United States or other jurisdictions, which would result in our future revenues being less than anticipated. We have received approval from the EPA for the active ingredients and certain end product formulations for Regalia, Grandevo, Zequanox, Opportune and Venerate. As we introduce new formulations of and applications for our products, we will need to seek EPA approval prior to commercial sale. For any such approval, the EPA may require us to fulfill certain conditions within a specified period of time following initial approval. We are also required to obtain regulatory approval from other state and foreign regulatory authorities before we market our products in their jurisdictions. Some of these states and foreign countries may apply different criteria than the EPA in their approval processes. Although federal pesticide law preempts separate state and local pesticide registration requirements to some extent, state and local governments retain authority to control pesticide use within their borders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for marketing our additional products or new product formulations and applications we are developing. Although the EPA has in place a registration procedure for biopesticides like Regalia and Grandevo that is streamlined in comparison to the registration procedure for conventional chemical pesticides, there can be no assurance that all of our products or product extensions will be eligible for this streamlined procedure or that additional requirements will not be mandated by the EPA that could make the procedure more time consuming and costly for our future products. Additionally, for California state registration and registration in jurisdictions outside of the United States, all products need to be proven efficacious, which can require costly field trial testing and a favorable result is not assured. Because many of the products that may be sold by us must be registered with one or more government agencies, the registration process can be time consuming and expensive, and there is no guarantee that the product will obtain all needed registrations. We have intentionally obtained registration in some jurisdictions and not in others. California is one of the largest and most important producers of agricultural products in the world. Because of its stringent regulation of pesticides and environmental focus, we also view California as one of the most natural and attractive markets for our products. Given California’s stringent regulations, it is possible that we may have products that have been registered by the EPA, in other states and in foreign countries, but which may not be sold in California. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed. Even if we obtain all necessary regulatory approvals to market and sell our products, they will be subject to continuing review and extensive regulatory requirements, including periodic re-registrations. The EPA, as well as state and foreign regulatory authorities, could withdraw a previously approved product from the market upon receipt of newly discovered information, including an inability to comply with their regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unanticipated problems with our products, or for other reasons. 31 Table of Contents Customers may not adopt our bio-based pest management and plant health products as quickly as we are projecting. Customers in the crop production sector and the water treatment sector are generally cautious in their adoption of new products and technologies. Growers often require on-farm demonstrations of a given pest management or plant health product. Initial purchases of the product tend to be conservative, with the grower testing on a small portion of their overall crop. As the product is proven, growers incorporate the product into their rotational programs and deploy it on a greater percentage of their operations. As a result, large scale adoption can take several growing seasons. Water treatment products must also pass efficacy and ecological toxicity tests. In addition, given the relative novelty of our water treatment products, consumers of those products will continue to require education on their use, which may delay their adoption. The high level of competition in the market for pest management products may result in pricing pressure, reduced margins or the inability of our products to achieve market acceptance. The markets for pest management products are intensely competitive, rapidly changing and undergoing consolidation. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins and the inability to achieve market acceptance for our products. Many entities are engaged in developing pest management products. Our competitors include major multinational agrichemical companies such as Arysta, BASF, Bayer, Dow Chemical, DuPont, FMC, Monsanto, Sumitomo Chemical, Syngenta and specialized biopesticide businesses such as AgraQuest (now a part of Bayer), Certis USA (now a part of Mitsui), Novozymes and Valent Biosciences (now a part of Sumitomo). Many of these organizations have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater brand recognition and a larger base of customers than we do. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the manufacture, promotion or sale of their products, receive greater resources and support from independent distributors, initiate or withstand substantial price competition or more readily take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities. Further, many of the large agrichemical companies have a more diversified product offering than we do, which may give these companies an advantage in meeting customers’ needs by enabling them to offer a broader range of pest management solutions. The market for our bio-based pest management and plant health products is underdeveloped, which may make it difficult to effectively market or price our products. The market for bio-based pest management products is underdeveloped when compared with conventional chemical pesticides. Certain of our product lines, such as Zequanox, currently have few or no competitors, making it difficult to determine how we should determine their pricing. We may not be able to charge as much for such products as we currently plan. In addition, customers have historically perceived bio-based pest management products as more expensive and less effective than conventional chemical pesticides. To succeed, we will need to continue to change that perception. To the extent that the market for bio-based pest management products does not further develop or customers elect to continue to purchase and rely on conventional chemical pesticides, our market opportunity will be limited. Public perception of consuming food with microbial residues and public perception of releasing microorganisms into the environment could damage our reputation and adversely impact sales of our microbial products. We believe maintaining our strong reputation and favorable image with distributors, direct customers and end users will be a key component in our success. Although there has been a long history of safe use of bio-based pest management products based on microorganisms, adverse public reaction to the microbial nature of our products could harm our potential sales. In addition, perceptions that the products we produce and market are not safe could adversely affect us and contribute to the risk we will be subjected to legal action. For example, companies are frequently subject to litigation and negative press related to the release of chemicals into water 32 Table of Contents systems, and our Zequanox water treatment product line may be subject to public scrutiny. Public perception that our products are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our product sales are expected to be seasonal and subject to weather conditions and other factors beyond our control, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly quarterly and annually. Sales of our individual products are generally expected to be seasonal. Weather conditions and natural disasters affect decisions by our distributors, direct customers and end users about the types and amounts of pest management products to purchase and the timing of use of such products. In addition, disruptions that cause delays by growers in harvesting or planting can result in the movement of orders to a future quarter, which would negatively affect the quarter and cause fluctuations in our operating results. For example, we expect that Regalia, a fungicide, will be sold and applied to crops in greater quantity in the second and fourth quarters. These seasonal variations may be especially pronounced because our principal sources of revenues are our Regalia and Grandevo product lines. These two product lines accounted for 97%, 96%, and 96% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, sales of products for treatment of invasive mussels are concentrated during periods of increased mussel growth and feeding activity, which occurs from June through September in the eastern United States, Canada and Europe and from April through October in the southwestern United States. However, planting and growing seasons, climatic conditions and other variables on which sales of our products are dependent vary from year to year and quarter to quarter. As a result, we have historically experienced substantial fluctuations in quarterly sales. The level of seasonality in our business overall is difficult to evaluate, particularly as a result of our relatively early stage of development, our relatively limited number of commercialized products, our expansion into new geographical territories, the introduction of new products and the timing of introductions of new formulations and products. It is possible that our business may be more seasonal, or experience seasonality in different periods, than anticipated. For example, if sales of Zequanox become a more significant component of our revenue, the separate seasonal sales cycles of that product could cause further shifts in our quarterly revenue. Other factors may also contribute to the unpredictability of our operating results, including the size and timing of significant distributor transactions, the delay or deferral of use of our products and the fiscal or quarterly budget cycles of our distributors, direct customers and end users. Customers may purchase large quantities of our products in a particular quarter to store and use over long periods of time or time their purchases to manage their inventories, which may cause significant fluctuations in our operating results for a particular quarter or year. For example, we believe that we experienced higher sales of Regalia in the first quarters of 2012 and 2011 than in the second quarters of those years as a result of distributors ordering in advance of the application season. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future sales. As a result, any shortfall in sales relative to our expectations could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter, which could result in uncertainty surrounding our level of earnings and possibly a decrease in our stock price. If we are unable to identify new product candidates through our product development process, we may not achieve or maintain profitability. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to improve our existing products and to utilize our product development process to identify and commercialize natural compounds with pesticidal activity. As of December 31, 2013, we have screened more than 18,000 microorganisms and 350 plant extracts, and we have identified multiple product candidates that display activity against insects, nematodes, weeds, plant diseases and invasive species such as zebra and quagga mussels, aquatic weeds and algae. Only a small number of these candidates are likely to provide viable commercial candidates and an even more limited number, if any, are likely to be commercialized by us. A failure by us to continue identifying natural compounds with pesticidal or plant health promoting activity could make it difficult to grow our business. In addition, we may continue to expand our product offerings through in-licensing of microorganisms and plant extracts. There is no assurance that these attempts will be successful. Licensing of products requires identification of new products or determination of 33 Table of Contents new applications for existing products and a willingness on the product owner to license the product. If we are unable to identify or in-license additional microorganisms, natural product compounds or product candidates, we may be unable to develop new products or generate revenues. Our results of operations will be affected by the level of royalty payments that we are required to pay to third parties. We are a party to license agreements that require us to remit royalty payments related to in-licensed microorganisms and plant extracts for certain of our product lines such as Regalia, Grandevo and Zequanox. The amount of royalties that we could owe under these license agreements ranges from 2% to 5% of net product revenues. We cannot precisely predict the amount, if any, of royalties we will owe in the future, and if our calculations of royalty payments are incorrect, we may owe more royalties, which could negatively affect our results of operations. As our product sales increase, we may, from time-to-time, disagree with our third-party collaborators as to the appropriate royalties owed and the resolution of such disputes may be costly and may consume management’s time. Furthermore, we may enter into additional license agreements in the future, which may also include royalty payments. We rely on third parties for the production of our products. If these parties do not produce our products at a satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, our development and commercialization efforts could be delayed or otherwise negatively impacted. We do not currently produce our microbial and plant extract-based products other than at a small scale using our own facilities. As such, we rely on third parties for the production of our products. While we are developing our own internal commercial-scale manufacturing capacity, we may from time to time utilize third-party manufacturers for supplemental production capacity of our products. Our reliance on third parties to manufacture our products presents significant risks to us, including the following: • reduced control over delivery schedules, yields and product reliability; • price increases; • manufacturing deviations from internal and regulatory specifications; • the failure of a key manufacturer to perform its obligations to us for technical, market or other reasons; • challenges presented by introducing our fermentation processes to new manufacturers or deploying them in new facilities; • difficulties in establishing additional manufacturers if we are presented with the need to transfer our manufacturing process technologies to them; • misappropriation of our intellectual property; and • other risks in potentially meeting our product commercialization schedule or satisfying the requirements of our distributors, direct customers and end users. We have not entered into any long-term manufacturing or supply agreements for any of our products, and we will need to enter into additional agreements for the commercial development, manufacturing and sale of our products. There can be no assurance that we can do so on favorable terms, if at all. Our products have been produced in quantities sufficient to meet commercial demand. However, our current dependence upon others for the production of our products, and our anticipated future dependence upon others for the production of a portion of our products, may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize any products on a timely and competitive basis. If manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated at one or more of our third-party manufacturers’ facilities, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, and our net revenues and results of operations could decline. 34 Table of Contents We must accurately forecast demand for our products to obtain adequate and cost-effective capacity from our third-party manufacturers and to purchase certain of the raw materials used in our products at cost-effective rates. Our third-party manufacturers are not required to supply us products until we place and they accept our purchase orders, which generally occurs approximately one month prior to the anticipated product delivery date based on our own rolling forecasts. Our purchase orders may not be accepted and our third-party manufacturers may not be willing to provide us with additional products on a timely basis if they prioritize orders placed by other companies, many of whom are more established than us and order larger volumes of products. In addition, while raw material orders are generally placed one month in advance, because certain of the raw materials used in our products are in short supply or are subject to capacity demands, we place some raw material orders approximately six months in advance to avoid paying higher prices. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to meet our customers’ delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories of products and raw materials. We may experience significant delays in financing or completing the repurpose of our commercial manufacturing facility for producing some of our bio-based pest management and plant health products, which could result in harm to our business and prospects. We acquired a manufacturing facility in July 2012, and our business plan contemplates completing an initial repurpose and upgrade of this facility to develop significant internal commercial manufacturing capacity. Phase 1 of the project includes installation of the first of three fermentation tanks, and the construction of a dedicated building to house them. In December 2013, we produced the first test batch of Grandevo at this facility and expect to begin full-scale production of our products using our own manufacturing capacity in the first half of 2014. Phase 1 will also include full-scale production of Regalia, which we successfully produced in small-scale in 2013, and Zequanox. Phase 2 will include increasing the capacity of the facility’s utilities, installing drying capacity and installing larger fermenters that will accommodate production of multiple products at higher volumes. If we are unable to complete the repurpose, upgrade and expansion of this facility in a timely manner, we will need to otherwise secure access to capacity significantly greater than what we have previously used as we commercialize our products. In order to bring our facility fully on line, we will need to complete design and other plans needed for the repurpose of the facility and secure the requisite permits, licenses and other governmental approvals, and we may not be successful in doing so. If we encounter significant delays, cost overruns, engineering problems, equipment supply constraints or other serious challenges in bringing the facility online, we may be unable to meet our production goals in the time frame we have planned. We may not be successful in producing the amount and quality of product we anticipate in the facility and our results of operations may suffer as a result. Further, we intend to continue to utilize various third-party contract manufacturers, which will reduce our ability to control product quality and the speed and timing of manufacturing, protect our proprietary position in our products and lower our manufacturing costs. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our operating results. Low yields may result from product design, development stage or process technology failures. We do not know whether a yield problem exists until our products are manufactured based on our design. When a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. As a result, yield deficiencies may not be identified until well into the production process. We are repurposing our manufacturing facility acquired in July 2012 for high volume production and anticipate further expanding capacity at this facility, and we may experience delays or product yield issues as this facility comes online. In the event we continue to rely on third-party manufacturers, resolution of yield problems requires cooperation among, and communication between us and our manufacturers. We have limited experience producing a number of our products at commercial scale, and we will not succeed if we cannot maintain or decrease our production costs and effectively scale our technology and manufacturing processes. 35 Table of Contents We rely on a single supplier based in China for a key ingredient of Regalia. The active ingredient in our Regalia product line is derived from the giant knotweed plant, which we obtain from China. Our single supplier acquires raw knotweed from numerous regional sources and performs an extraction process on this plant, creating a dried extract that is shipped to our third-party manufacturer in the United States. A disruption at our supplier’s manufacturing site or a disruption in trade between the United States and China could negatively impact sales of Regalia. We currently use one supplier and do not have a long-term supply contract with this supplier. Although we have identified additional sources of knotweed, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain dried extract from China at a competitive price point. We have limited experience in marketing and selling our products and will need to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure. We currently have limited sales and marketing experience and capabilities. As of December 31, 2013, we employed 33 full-time equivalent sales and marketing personnel, 24 of which focus on technical support and demonstration and research field trials. We will need to further develop our sales and marketing capabilities in order to successfully commercialize Zequanox, Opportune, Venerate and other products we are developing, which may involve substantial costs. Our internal sales and marketing staff consists primarily of sales and marketing specialists and field development specialists who are trained to educate growers and independent distributors on the uses and benefits of our products. These specialists require a high level of technical expertise and knowledge regarding the capabilities of our products compared with other pest management products and techniques. There can be no assurance that our specialists and other members of our sales and marketing team will successfully compete against the sales and marketing teams of our current and future competitors, many of which may have more established relationships with distributors and growers. Our inability to recruit, train and retain sales and marketing personnel or their inability to effectively market and sell the products we are developing could impair our ability to gain market acceptance of our products and cause our sales to suffer. If we are unable to maintain and further establish successful relations with the third-party distributors that are our principal customers, or they do not focus adequate resources on selling our products or are unsuccessful in selling them to end users, sales of our products would decline. In the United States, we rely on independent distributors of agrichemicals such as Crop Production Services and Wilbur Ellis to distribute and assist us with the marketing and sale of Regalia, Grandevo and other products we are developing. These distributors are our principal customers, and our future revenues growth will depend in large part on our success in establishing and maintaining this sales and distribution channel. If our distributors are unable to sell our products, or receive negative feedback from end users, they may not continue to purchase or market our products. In addition, our products are often combined with other pesticides. If our products are improperly combined with other pesticides they may damage the treated plants, and, even when properly combined, our products may be blamed for damage caused by these other pesticides. Any such issues could damage our brands or reputation. In addition, there can be no assurance that our distributors will focus adequate resources on selling our products to end users or will be successful in selling them. Many of our potential distributors are in the business of distributing and sometimes manufacturing other, possibly competing, pest management products. As a result, these distributors may perceive our products as a threat to various product lines currently being distributed or manufactured by them. In addition, these distributors may earn higher margins by selling competing products or combinations of competing products. If we are unable to establish or maintain successful relationships with independent distributors, we will need to further develop our own sales and distribution capabilities, which would be expensive and time-consuming and the success of which would be uncertain. We depend on a limited number of distributors, some of whom are related parties. Our current revenues are derived from a limited number of key customers, each of which serves as a third-party distributor to our products’ end users. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our top two distributors accounted 36 Table of Contents for 38% of our total revenues, with Crop Production Services and The Tremont Group accounting for 28% and 10% of our total revenues, respectively. The Tremont Group is an affiliate of Les Lyman, who is a member of our board. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our top three distributors accounted for 58% of our total revenues, with Crop Production Services, Engage Agro and Helena Chemical accounting for 33%, 13% and 12% of our total revenues, respectively. We expect a limited number of distributors, some of whom may be related parties, to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. The loss or reduction of business from one or a combination of our significant distributors could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the experience and expertise of our senior management team and other key personnel, and if we are unable to recruit or retain qualified personnel, our development and commercialization efforts may be significantly delayed. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management, particularly Dr. Pamela G. Marrone, our founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whose services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our scientific or business objectives. Although we maintain and are the beneficiary of $15.0 million in key person life insurance policies for the life of Dr. Marrone, we do not believe the proceeds would be adequate to compensate us for her loss. As we expand our operations, we will need to hire additional qualified research and development and management personnel to succeed. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operation is a lengthy and expensive one. The market for qualified personnel such as experienced fermentation engineers and formulation chemists is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our technology and anticipated products. Our failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to meet our research and development and business objectives and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We also have relationships with scientific collaborators at academic and other institutions, some of whom conduct research at our request or assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. These scientific collaborators are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We have limited control over the activities of these scientific collaborators and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited amounts of time to our activities. The inability of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to our programs could harm our business. In addition, these collaborators may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing technologies that may compete with our products. Our intellectual property is integral to our business. If we are unable to protect our patents and proprietary rights in the United States and foreign countries, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary rights protection for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. As of December 31, 2013, we had 8 issued U.S. patents and 17 issued foreign patents (of which 5 U.S. patents and 10 foreign patents were in-licensed), 32 pending provisional and non-provisional patent applications (of which 2 were in-licensed), and 246 pending foreign patent applications (of which 6 were in-licensed). The patent position of biotechnology and biochemical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, 37 Table of Contents scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems and costs in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. Our patents and those patents for which we have license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage. We are not certain that our pending patent applications will be issued. Moreover, our competitors could challenge or circumvent our patents or pending patent applications. It is also not possible to patent and protect all knowledge and know-how associated with our products so there may be areas that are not protected such as certain formulations and manufacturing processes. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. For certain of our products, we hold co-exclusive licenses to certain of the intellectual property related to these products. Although our products that are derived from intellectual property licensed to us on a co-exclusive basis also include our own proprietary technology, the third parties with whom we share co-exclusive rights may develop products based on the same underlying intellectual property. This could adversely affect the sale of our products. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and could distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development, sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position could be harmed. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and third-party manufacturers. It is possible that these agreements may be breached and that any remedies for a breach will not make us whole. In addition, some courts inside and outside of the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. We generally control and limit access to, and the distribution of, our product documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect these proprietary rights, our trade secret-protected know-how could fall into the public domain, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products and obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We also cannot guarantee that other parties will not independently develop our knowhow or otherwise obtain access to our technologies. 38 Table of Contents Third parties may misappropriate our microbial strains. Third parties, including contract manufacturers, often have custody or control of our microbial strains. If our microbial strains were stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, they could be used by other parties who may be able to reproduce the microbial strains for their own commercial gain. If this were to occur, it would be difficult for us to challenge and prevent this type of use, especially in countries with limited intellectual property protection. Other companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment such as ours in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. Patents issued to third parties may contain claims that conflict with our patents and that may place restrictions on the commercial viability of our products and technologies. Third parties could assert infringement claims against us in the future. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products, product candidates and technology. We may not be aware of all such third-party intellectual property rights potentially relevant to our products and product candidates. Any litigation, adversarial proceeding or proceeding before governmental authorities regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of its outcome, would probably be costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Litigation, adversarial proceedings or proceedings before governmental authorities could also force us to: • stop or delay using our proprietary screening technology; • stop or delay selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay damages; and/or • enter into licensing or royalty agreements which, if available at all, may only be available on unfavorable terms. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could have a similar negative impact on our business. If we fail to maintain and successfully manage our existing, or enter into new, strategic collaborations and other relationships, we may not be able to expand commercial development and sales of many of our products. Our ability to enter into, maintain and manage collaborations and other relationships in our markets is fundamental to the success of our business. We currently have entered into various license agreements, research and development agreements, supply agreements and distribution agreements. We currently rely on our third parties for manufacturing and sales or marketing services and intend to continue to do so for the foreseeable future, and we intend to enter into other strategic agreements to produce, market and sell other products we develop. However, we may not be successful in entering into new arrangements with third parties for the production, sale and marketing of other products. Any failure to enter into new strategic arrangements on favorable terms or to maintain or manage our existing strategic arrangements could delay or hinder our ability to develop and commercialize our products and could increase our costs of development and commercialization. 39 Table of Contents We expect to derive a portion of our revenues from markets outside the United States, including Europe and Latin America, which will subject us to additional business risks. Our success depends in part on our ability to expand internationally as we obtain regulatory approvals to market and sell our products in foreign countries. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, international sales comprised 8%, 20% and 7% of total revenues, respectively, and we expect to increase the relative percentage of international sales in the future. We have been conducting field trials in Europe, Latin America, Africa and elsewhere. International expansion of our operations could impose substantial burdens on our resources, divert management’s attention from domestic operations and otherwise harm our business. Furthermore, international operations are subject to several inherent risks, especially different regulatory requirements and reduced protection of intellectual property rights that could adversely affect our ability to compete in international markets and have a negative effect on our operating results. Revenues generated outside the United States could also result in increased difficulty in collecting delinquent or unpaid accounts receivables, adverse tax consequences and currency fluctuations. Our Zequanox product line requires additional development, and during the initial commercialization of Zequanox, we will be relying on successful bidding for government contracts, which could require a longer sales cycle than the private sector. Our Zequanox product line is principally designed to kill invasive mussels that restrict critical water flow in industrial and power facilities and impinge on access to recreational waters. This product requires additional development to improve ease of application, and because this product will be used in open waters, it may also require additional ecological testing. We expect our near-term sales of Zequanox will continue to be to governmental agencies and regulated industries, which typically take longer to negotiate and approve contracts than the private sector. Further, we currently expect that our governmental sales may be subject to bidding procedures as well as uncertainties surrounding these agencies’ budget approval processes. Therefore, we anticipate that the sales cycle for Zequanox will continue to be longer than that for our pest management products sold into agricultural markets. We may require additional financing in the future and may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development activities. We may need to raise more money to continue our operations or to enter into strategic transactions, and we may make significant capital expenditures in connection with scaling up our operations, including, for example, the repurpose of our manufacturing facility. We may seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, corporate collaborations and licenses, borrowings under lease lines of credit or other sources. Additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. If we cannot raise more money when needed, we may have to reduce our capital expenditures, scale back our development of new products, reduce our workforce or license to others products that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves. Moreover, our cash used in operations has exceeded cash generated from operations in each period since our inception. We used approximately $34.0 million, $22.4 million and $12.4 million of net cash used in operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred expenses of $17.8 million, $12.7 million and $9.4 million, respectively, for research, development and patent related costs. We expect that our current resources and future operating revenue will be sufficient to fund operations for at least the next 18 months. We may attempt to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we have sufficient funds for planned operations. 40 Table of Contents We use hazardous materials in our business and are subject to potential liability under environmental laws. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous materials could be time consuming and costly to resolve. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, disposal and release of hazardous materials and certain waste products. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and biological waste. Some of these materials may be novel, including bacteria with novel properties and bacteria that produce biologically active compounds. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any injury resulting from these materials. In addition, although we have not currently identified any environmental liabilities, the manufacturing facility we purchased in July 2012 may have existing environmental liabilities associated with it that may also result in successor liabilities for us, and we will be subject to increased exposure to potential environmental liabilities as we manufacture our products on a larger scale. We may also be held liable for hazardous materials brought onto the premises of our manufacturing facility before we acquired title, without regard for fault for, or knowledge of, the presence of such substances, as well as for hazardous materials that may be discovered after we no longer own the property if we sell it in the future. In the event of an accident, or if any hazardous materials are found within our operations or on the premises of our manufacturing facility in violation of the law at any time, we may be liable for all cleanup costs, fines, penalties and other costs. This liability could exceed our resources, and, if significant losses arise from hazardous substance contamination, our financial viability may be substantially and adversely affected. In addition, we may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of new governmental regulations that might have an adverse effect on the research, development, production and marketing of our products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations. Our business may be harmed by the cost of compliance. Our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. To our knowledge, their work is performed in accordance with applicable biosafety regulations. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, however, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, hazardous materials used by these parties. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations. Any decline in U.S. agricultural production could have a material adverse effect on the market for pesticides and on our results of operations and financial position. Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. State and federal governmental policies, including farm subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products and the prices at which produce may be sold, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of pesticides for particular agricultural applications. There are various proposals pending before the U.S. congress to cut or eliminate various agricultural subsidies. If such proposals are implemented, they may adversely impact the U.S. agricultural industry and suppliers to that industry such as us. Our headquarters and facility and certain manufacturers and suppliers are located in regions that are subject to natural disasters, as well as in some cases geopolitical risks and social upheaval. Our Davis, California headquarters and facility is located near a known earthquake fault. The impact of a major earthquake or other natural disaster, including floods, on our facilities, infrastructure and overall operations is difficult to predict and any natural disaster could seriously disrupt our entire business process. In addition, Regalia is produced by a third-party manufacturer in Florida in a location that could be impacted by hurricane 41 Table of Contents activity, and certain of our raw materials are sourced in China, which is subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions such as the outbreak of contagious diseases, such as avian flu, swine flu and SARS, and natural disasters. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from natural disasters or other business interruptions. Although these risks have not materially adversely affected our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, there can be no assurance that such risks will not do so in the future. Inability to comply with regulations applicable to our facilities and procedures could delay, limit or prevent our research and development or manufacturing activities. Our research and development and manufacturing facilities and procedures are subject to continual review and periodic inspection. We must spend funds, time and effort in the areas of production, safety and quality control and assurance to ensure full technical compliance with the regulations applicable to these facilities and procedures. If the EPA or another regulatory body determines that we are not in compliance with these regulations, regulatory approval of our products could be delayed or we may be required to limit or cease our research and development or manufacturing activities or pay a monetary fine. If we are required to limit or cease our research and development activities, our ability to develop new products would be impaired. In addition, if we are required to limit or cease our manufacturing activities, our ability to produce our products in commercial quantities would be impaired or prohibited, which would harm our business. We may be exposed to product liability and remediation claims, which could harm our business. The use of certain bio-based pest management and plant health products is regulated by various local, state, federal and foreign environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may include requirements that only certified or professional users apply the product or that certain products be used only on certain types of locations, may require users to post notices on properties to which products have been or will be applied, may require notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future or may ban the use of certain ingredients. Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not cause injury to crops, the environment or people under all circumstances. For example, our products may be improperly combined with other pesticides or, even when properly combined, our products may be blamed for damage caused by these other pesticides. The costs of remediation or products liability could materially adversely affect our future quarterly or annual operating results. We may be held liable for, or incur costs to settle, liability and remediation claims if any products we develop, or any products that use or incorporate any of our technologies, cause injury or are found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks exist even with respect to products that have received, or may in the future receive, regulatory approval, registration or clearance for commercial use. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to avoid product liability exposure. We currently maintain product liability insurance at levels we believe are sufficient and consistent with industry standards for companies at our stage of development. We cannot guarantee that our product liability insurance is adequate and, at any time, it is possible that this insurance coverage may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A product liability claim could result in liability to us greater than our assets or insurance coverage. Moreover, even if we have adequate insurance coverage, product liability claims or recalls could result in negative publicity or force us to devote significant time and attention to those matters, which could harm our business. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $77.7 million of federal and $73.5 million of state operating loss carry-forwards available to offset future taxable income, which expire in varying amounts beginning in 2026 42 Table of Contents for federal and 2016 for state purposes if unused. It is possible that we will not generate taxable income in time to use these loss carry-forwards before their expiration. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s net operating losses, as well as certain recognized built-in losses and other carryforwards, after an “ownership change” occurs. A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Future issuances or sales of our stock (including certain transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control) could also result in an ownership change under Section 382. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of pre-change net operating losses and other losses we can use to reduce our taxable income generally equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” (subject to certain adjustments) and the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate for the month of the “ownership change.” The applicable rate for ownership changes occurring in the month of March 2014 was 3.36%. Because U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation may effectively provide a cap on the cumulative amount of pre-ownership change losses, including certain recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Such pre-ownership change losses in excess of the cap may be lost. In addition, if an ownership change were to occur, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-ownership change losses and certain recognized built-in losses could cause a net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. Further, if the amount or value of these deferred tax assets is reduced, such reduction would have a negative impact on the book value of our common stock. We completed a Section 382 analysis as of December 31, 2013 and concluded that approximately $0.5 million in federal net operating losses and approximately $0.2 million in federal research and development credits are expected to expire prior to utilization as a result of our previous ownership changes and corresponding annual limitations. Our business is subject to various governmental regulations, and compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses. If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, which could subject us to civil or criminal penalties. The complex legal and regulatory environment exposes us to compliance and litigation costs and risks that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political or economic events. They include environmental laws and regulations, tax laws and regulations, import and export laws and regulations, government contracting laws and regulations, labor and employment laws and regulations, securities and exchange laws and regulations, and other laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, proposed laws and regulations in these and other areas could affect the cost of our business operations. We face the risk of changes in both domestic and foreign laws regarding trade, potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or foreign laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights. Violations of any of these laws and regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our executive officers and directors, and their respective affiliates, will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of 6.7 million shares, or 34.4%, of our common stock. This 43 Table of Contents concentrated control will limit the ability for other stockholders to influence some corporate matters and could result in some corporate actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial such as failure to approve change of control transactions that could offer holders of our common stock a premium over the market value of our company. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. We are an early stage company with a limited operating history and a history of losses. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in August 2013 (the “IPO”) at a price of $12.00 per share, our stock price has ranged up to $20.00 through December 31, 2013. The trading price of our common stock will likely continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • our small public float relative to the total number of shares of common stock that are issued and outstanding; • quarterly variations in our results of operations, those of our competitors or those of our customers; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or services or new commercial relationships by us or our competitors; • our ability to develop and market new products on a timely basis; • disruption to our operations; • media reports and publications about pest management products; • announcements concerning our competitors or the pest management industry in general; • our entry into, modification of or termination of key license, research and development or collaborative agreements; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines or the status of our regulatory approvals; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • changes in financial estimates, including our ability to meet our future net revenues and operating profit or loss projections; and • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our business. Substantial future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 14, 2014, we had approximately 19.6 million shares of common stock outstanding, of which approximately 12.7 million shares became eligible for sale in the public market after the expiration of lock-up agreements on January 28, 2014, and an additional 0.8 million shares will be eligible for sale in the public market on or after August 1, 2014, after the 44 Table of Contents expiration of additional market stand-off agreements entered into with us. Sales of these shares are subject in some cases to volume and manner of sale restriction of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Sales of a substantial number of such shares after this expiration, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause our share price to fall. In addition, in September 2013, we filed a Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register 3,987,910 shares of our common stock for issuance under our equity incentive plans. These shares may be sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging public companies, which includes, among other things: • exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; • exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements; and • exemption from any rules requiring mandatory audit firm rotation and auditor discussion and analysis and, unless the SEC otherwise determines, any future audit rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary after our initial public offering, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (ii) the date on which we have, during the previous three year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt or (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws. We will qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (i) more than $700 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates and (ii) been public for at least 12 months. The value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last day of our second fiscal quarter. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies are also permitted to elect to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards until companies that are not subject to periodic reporting obligations are required to comply, if such accounting standards apply to non-reporting companies. We have made an irrevocable decision to opt out of this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. 45 Table of Contents We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” As a newly public company, particularly after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements, in order to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives and our legal and accounting compliance costs will increase. We may need to hire additional staff or consultants in the areas of investor relations, legal and accounting to operate as a public company. We also expect that these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, as a public company, we will be required to perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As described above, as an emerging growth company, we will not need to comply with the auditor attestation provisions of Section 404 for several years. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause our stock price to decline. When the available exemptions under the JOBS Act, as described above, cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of our board of directors to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the establishment of a classified board of directors requiring that only a subset of the members of our board of directors be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders; 46 Table of Contents • the prohibition of cumulative voting in our election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement that stockholders provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; • the ability of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of our common stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • the required approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend, or repeal our bylaws; • the required approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to repeal or adopt any provision of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election of directors; • the required approval of the holders of at least 80% of such shares to amend or repeal the provisions of our bylaws regarding the election and classification of directors; and • the required approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors without cause. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 