Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business We compete with many others in the market for clinical documentation solutions which may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and an inability to maintain or increase our market share. We compete with other outsourced clinical documentation solutions companies in a highly fragmented market that includes national, regional and local service providers, as well as service providers with global operations. These companies have services that are similar to ours, and certain of these companies are substantially larger or have significantly greater financial resources than we do. We also compete with the in-house medical transcription staffs of our customers and potential customers. There can be no assurance that 13 Table of Contents we will be able to compete effectively against our competitors or timely implement new products and services. Many of our competitors attempt to differentiate themselves by offering lower priced alternatives to our outsourced medical transcription services and customers could elect to utilize less comprehensive solutions than the ones we offer due to the lower costs of those competitive products. Some competition may even be willing to accept less profitable business in order to grow revenue. Increased competition and cost pressures affecting the healthcare markets in general may result in lower prices for our services, reduced operating margins and the inability to maintain or increase our market share. Our business is dependent upon the continued demand for transcription services. If EHR companies produce alternatives to medical transcription that reduce the need for transcription, the demand for our solutions could be reduced. EHR companies’ solutions for the collection of clinical data typically require physicians to directly enter and organize patient information through “point-and-click” templates which attempt to reduce or eliminate the need for transcription. A second alternative to conventional transcription involves a physician dictating a record of patient encounters and receiving a speech-recognized draft of their dictation, which the physician can self-edit. There is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, these solutions for the creation of electronic clinical documentation. In the event that these and other solutions are successful and gain wide acceptance, the demand for our solutions could be reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth is dependent on the willingness of new customers to outsource and adopt our technology platforms. We plan to grow, in part, by capitalizing on perceived market opportunities to provide our services to new customers. These new customers must be willing to outsource functions which may otherwise have been performed within their organizations, adopt new technologies and incur the time and expense needed to integrate those technologies into their existing systems. For example, the up-front cost and time involved in changing medical transcription providers or in converting from an in-house medical transcription department to an outsourced provider may be significant. Many customers may prefer to remain with their current provider or keep their transcription in-house rather than invest the time and resources required for the implementation of a new system. Also, as the maintenance of accurate medical records is a critical element of a healthcare provider’s ability to deliver quality care to its patients and to receive proper and timely reimbursement for the services it renders, potential customers may be reluctant to outsource or change providers of such an important function. Our success will depend on our ability to support existing technologies as well as to adopt and integrate new technology into our workflow platforms. Our ability to remain competitive in the clinical documentation industry is based, in part, on our ability to develop, utilize and support technology in the services and solutions that we provide to our customers. As our customers advance technologically, we must be able to effectively integrate our solutions with their systems and provide advanced data collection technology. We also may need to develop technologies to provide service systems comparable to those of our competitors as they develop new technology. If we are unable to effectively develop and integrate new technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors. In addition, if the cost of developing and integrating new technologies is high, we may not realize our expected return on investment. Technology innovations in the markets that we serve may create alternatives to our products and result in reduced sales. Technology innovations to which our current and potential customers might have access could reduce or eliminate their need for our products. A new or other disruptive technology that reduces or eliminates the use of one or more of our products could negatively impact the sale of these products. Our failure to develop, introduce or enhance products able to compete with new technologies in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Many of our customer contracts are terminable at will by our customers, and our ability to sustain and grow profitable operations is dependent upon the ability to retain customers. Many of our contracts can be terminated at will by our customers. If a significant number of our customers were to cancel or materially change their commitments with us, we could have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We must, therefore, engage in continual operational support and sales efforts to maintain 14 Table of Contents revenue stability and future growth with these customers. If a significant number of our customers terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us, our business could be negatively impacted if additional business is not obtained to replace the business which was lost. Customer retention is largely dependent on providing quality service at competitive prices. Customer retention may be impacted by events outside of our control, such as changes in customer ownership, management, financial condition and competitors’ sales efforts. If we experience a higher than expected rate of customer attrition the resulting loss of business could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy or to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and our debt obligations include restrictive covenants which may restrict our operations or otherwise adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2010 we have approximately $294.5 million of indebtedness outstanding, consisting of $200.0 million of Term Loan debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, $85.0 million of Senior Subordinated Notes and other indebtedness consisting of capital leases and borrowings under other credit facilities, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $19.3 million and $9.0 million. Our variable rate indebtedness bears interest at LIBOR plus 5.50% with a LIBOR floor of 1.75%. Because the LIBOR floor is currently in effect, a 1.25% increase in LIBOR above current LIBOR levels would not increase our effective interest rate. A 1.0% increase in the interest rate above this floor would impact our interest expense by approximately $2.0 million. This indebtedness could have important negative consequences to our business, including: n increasing the difficulty of our ability to make payments on our outstanding debt; n increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions because our debt payment obligations may limit our ability to use our cash to respond to or defend against changes in the industry or the economy; n requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; n limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; n limiting our ability to pursue our growth strategy; and n placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged and may be better able to use their cash flow to fund competitive responses to changing industry, market or economic conditions. In addition, under our debt financing agreements, we must abide by certain financial and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, a maximum total leverage ratio and a maximum consolidated senior leverage ratio. Upon a breach of any of the covenants in our debt financing agreements, the lenders could declare us to be in default and could further require any outstanding borrowings to be immediately due and payable, and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. We are dependent on third party speech recognition software incorporated in certain of our technologies, and the inability to maintain, support or enhance such third party software over time could harm our business. We license speech recognition software from third parties, both of which are competitors, which we incorporate into several of our key products and solutions. Our ability to continue to sell and support these products and solutions depends on continued support from these licensors. If we were to experience the loss of one of these licenses, the portion of our business that relies on this software would be adversely affected while we transitioned it to the software provided under our other license. If we were to experience the loss of both of these licenses at any one time, our business would be adversely affected until we identify, license and integrate, or develop and integrate equivalent software, which we may be unable to do. There can be no assurance that such third party licensors will continue to 15 Table of Contents invest the appropriate levels of resources in the software to maintain and enhance the capabilities of the software and if such third party licensors do not continue to develop their products, the development of our solutions to meet the requirements of our customers and potential customers could be adversely affected. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. We incorporate open source software into our workflow solutions platforms and other software solutions. Open source software is accessible, usable and modifiable by anyone, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. Under certain conditions, the use of some open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. The circumstances under which our use of open source code would compel us to offer derivative code at no cost are subject to varying judicial interpretations, and we cannot guarantee that a court would not require certain of our core technology be made available as open source code. The use of such open source code may also ultimately require us to take remedial action, such as replacing certain code used in our products, paying a royalty to use some open source code, making certain proprietary source code available to others or discontinuing certain products, any of which may divert resources away from our development efforts. We may also find that we need to incorporate certain proprietary third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products in the future. Licenses to relevant third-party technologies may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed and integrated into our current products. Such delays could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to expand our business depends on our ability to effectively manage our domestic and offshore production capacity, which we may not be able to do. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively manage our domestic and offshore production capacity, including our ability to attract and retain qualified MTs and MEs who can provide accurate medical transcription. We must also effectively manage our offshore transcription labor pool, which is currently located in India. If the productivity of our Indian employees does not outpace any increase in wages, our profits could suffer. Because medical transcription is a skilled position in which experience is valuable, we require that our MTs and MEs have substantial experience or receive substantial training before being hired. Competition may force us to increase the compensation and benefits paid to our MTs and MEs, which could reduce our operating margins and profitability. If we fail to comply with contractual obligations and applicable laws and regulations governing the handling of patient identifiable medical information, we could suffer material losses or be adversely affected by exposure to material penalties and liabilities. As part of the operation of our business, our customers provide us with certain patient identifiable medical information. Although many regulatory and governmental requirements do not directly apply to our operations, we and our hospital and other healthcare provider customers must comply with a variety of requirements related to the handling of patient information, including laws and regulations protecting the privacy, confidentiality and security of protected health information, or PHI. Most of our customers are covered entities under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and, in many of our relationships, we function as a business associate. The provisions of HIPAA, require our customers to have business associate agreements with us under which we are required to appropriately safeguard the PHI we create or receive on their behalf. Further, we and our customers are required to comply with HIPAA security regulations that require us and them to implement certain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI, or EPHI. We are required by regulation and contract to protect the security of EPHI that we create, receive, maintain or transmit for our customers consistent with these regulations. To comply with our regulatory and contractual obligations, we may have to reorganize processes and invest in new technologies. We also are required to train personnel regarding HIPAA requirements. If we, or any of our MTs, MEs or subcontractors, are unable to maintain the privacy, confidentiality and security of the PHI that is entrusted to us, we and/or our customers could be subject to civil and criminal fines and sanctions and we could be found to have breached our contracts with our customers. We are bound by business associate agreements with covered entities that require us to use and disclose PHI in a manner consistent with HIPAA in providing services to those covered entities. The HITECH Act, which was enacted into law on February 17, 2009 as 16 Table of Contents part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, enhances and strengthens the HIPAA privacy and security standards and makes certain provisions applicable to “business associates” of covered entities. As of February 17, 2010, some provisions of HIPAA apply directly to us. In addition, the HITECH Act creates new security breach notification requirements. The direct applicability of the new HIPAA Privacy and Security provisions will require us to incur additional costs and may restrict our business operations. In addition, these new provisions will result in additional regulations and guidance issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services and will be subject to interpretation by various courts and other governmental authorities, thus creating potentially complex compliance issues for us and our customers. Since February 17, 2010, we have been directly subject to HIPAA’s criminal and civil penalties for breaches of our privacy and security obligations. Security and privacy breaches in our systems may damage customer relations and inhibit our growth. The uninterrupted operation of our hosted solutions and the confidentiality and security of third-party information is critical to our business. Any failures or perceived failures in our security and privacy measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to protect, or our customers perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and privacy of our electronic information, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach may: n cause our customers to lose confidence in our solutions; n harm our reputation; n expose us to liability; and n increase our expenses from potential remediation costs. While we believe that we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of these applications will be sufficient to address changing market conditions or the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. Our business depends on the reliable and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, Internet applications and data centers. A substantial portion of our business involves the transfer of large amounts of data to and from our workflow platforms. These workflow platforms, and their underlying technologies, are designed to operate and to be accessible by our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Network and information systems, the Internet and other technologies are critical to our business activities. We have periodically experienced short term outages with our workflow platforms that have not significantly disrupted our business. However, a long term outage could adversely affect our ability to provide service to our customers. We also perform data center and/or hosting services for certain customers, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. Failure of public power and backup generators, impairment of telecommunications lines, a “concerted denial of service cyber attack,” damage (environmental, accidental, intentional or pandemic) to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers, the customer data contained therein and/or the personnel trained to operate such facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact customers who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and/or customer support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new customers, result in revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our customers and us and increase insurance and other operating costs. Recent and proposed legislation and possible negative publicity may impede our ability to utilize offshore production capabilities. Certain state laws that have recently been enacted and bills introduced in recent sessions of the U.S. Congress seek to restrict the transmission of personally identifiable information regarding a U.S. resident to any foreign affiliate, subcontractor or unaffiliated third party without adequate privacy protections or without providing notice of the transmission and an opportunity to opt out. Some of the proposals would require patient consent. If enacted, these proposed laws would impose liability on healthcare businesses arising from 17 Table of Contents the improper sharing or other misuse of personally identifiable information. Some proposals would create a private civil cause of action that would allow an injured party to recover damages sustained as a result of a violation of the new law. A number of states have also considered, or are in the process of considering, prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other information to individuals or entities located outside of the U.S. Further, as a result of concerns regarding the possible misuse of personally identifiable information, some of our customers have contractually limited our ability to use MTs and MEs located outside of the U.S. The effect of these proposals would be to limit our ability to utilize our lower-cost offshore production facilities for affected customers, which could adversely affect our operating margins. Any change in legislation, regulation or market practices in the United States affecting healthcare or healthcare insurance may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Over the past twenty years the U.S. healthcare industry has experienced a variety of regulatory and market driven changes to how it is operated and funded. Further changes, whether by government policy shift, insurance company changes or otherwise, may happen, and any such changes may adversely affect the U.S. healthcare information and services market. As business process outsourcing and “off-shoring” have grown in recent years, concerns have also grown about the impact of these phenomena on jobs in the United States. These concerns could drive government policy in a way which is disadvantageous to us. Further, if government regulation or market practices leads to fewer individuals seeking medical treatment, we could experience a decline in our processed volumes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions in India. A significant portion of our operations is located in India. Multiple factors relating to our Indian operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: n changes in political, regulatory, legal or economic conditions; n governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and foreign investments; n civil disturbances, including terrorism or war; n political instability; n public health emergencies; n changes in employment practices and labor standards; n local business and cultural factors that differ from our customary standards and practices; and n changes in tax laws. In addition, the Indian economy may differ favorably or unfavorably from other economies in several respects, including the growth rate of GDP, the rate of inflation, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments position. The Indian government has traditionally exercised and continues to exercise a significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. Further actions or changes in policy, including taxation, of the Indian central government or the respective Indian state governments could have a significant effect on the Indian economy, which could adversely affect private sector companies, market conditions and the success of our operations. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations require that any international transactions involving associated enterprises are undertaken at an arm’s length price. Applicable income tax authorities review our tax returns and if they determine that the transfer prices we have applied are not appropriate, we may incur increased tax liabilities, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby materially reducing our profitability and cash flows. Indian tax authorities reviewed our transfer pricing practices at Spheris India Pvt. Ltd. for tax years ended March 2004 and 2005, prior to our ownership of Spheris, and concluded that the transfer price was not at arms’ length. They assessed additional taxes for these years, which we have paid or fully reserved. However, we continue to dispute this assessment and the matter is currently under appeal. We are exposed to fluctuations of the value of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar, which could adversely affect our operations. 18 Table of Contents Although our accounts are prepared in U.S. dollars, much of our operations are carried out in India with payments to staff and suppliers made in Indian Rupees. The exchange rate between the Indian Rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially and could fluctuate in the future. Movements in the rate of exchange between the Indian Rupee and the U.S. dollar could result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our equity. We are highly dependent on certain key personnel and the loss of any or all of these key personnel may have an adverse impact upon future performance. Our operations and future success are dependent upon the existence and expertise in this sector of certain key personnel. The loss of services of any of these individuals for any reason or our inability to attract suitable replacements would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our business and operations. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute existing stockholders and could involve substantial integration risks. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, other businesses and technologies. We may issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute existing stockholders, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of the acquisition. We may also incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, which may place additional restrictions on the ability to operate the business. Furthermore, prior acquisitions have required substantial integration and management efforts. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: n difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, including different and complex accounting and financial reporting systems; n potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; n potential difficulty in successfully implementing, upgrading and deploying in a timely and effective manner new operational information systems and upgrades of finance and accounting systems; n difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into products and technology; n unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; n management of geographically remote offices and operations; n impairment of relationships with partners and customers; n customers delaying purchases or seeking concessions pending resolution of integration between existing and newly acquired services or technology platforms; n entering markets or types of businesses in which management has limited experience; and n potential loss of customers or key employees of the acquired company. As a result of these and other risks, we may not realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to additional regulatory compliance requirements, including section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our reputation and our business could be harmed. As a U.S. public company, our ongoing compliance with various rules and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, will increase our legal and finance compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and requirements may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time. Implementing these changes may take a significant 19 Table of Contents amount of time and may require specific compliance training of our personnel. For example, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that our management report on, and our independent auditors attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports filed with the SEC. Section 404 compliance may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. We may not be able to successfully complete the procedures and certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 by the time we will be required to do so. If we fail to do so, or if in the future our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Market, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. As a result, investor perceptions of our company may suffer, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Irrespective of compliance with these rules and regulations, including the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our business and reputation. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $102 million of federal net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which will begin to expire in 2025 if not utilized, and approximately $286 million of state NOLs. Under the relevant federal and state tax provisions currently in effect, certain substantial cumulative changes in our ownership may further limit the amount of NOL carryforwards that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use NOL carryforwards if such company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change, or an ownership shift, over a three-year testing period. We believe that, as a result of our initial public offering or as a result of future issuances of capital stock, it is possible that such an ownership change may occur. If we experience an ownership change, our ability to use our United States federal and state NOL carryforwards in any future periods may be restricted. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOL carryforwards, we will pay more taxes than if we were able to utilize such NOL carryforwards fully. As a result, any inability to use our NOL carryforwards could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not own 100% of the stock of MedQuist Inc. We currently own approximately 97% of MedQuist Inc. In connection with the proposed settlement of the Shareholder Litigation described in Item 3. Legal proceedings, we have agreed to conduct a short-form merger to acquire the remaining shares of MedQuist Inc. common stock that we do not currently own at the same exchange ratio applicable under the Registered Exchange Offer. The settlement of the Shareholder Litigation is conditioned upon, among other things, execution of a final Stipulation of Settlement, notice to all class members, a fairness hearing and final approval of the settlement by the court. If these conditions are not met and we do not acquire 100% ownership of MedQuist Inc., our interests in MedQuist Inc. could conflict with the interests of MedQuist Inc.’s other stockholders and our costs and our ability to operate our businesses on a fully consolidated basis could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Our largest stockholder may exercise significant control over our company. Affiliates of SAC PCG, our largest stockholder, will beneficially own in the aggregate shares representing approximately 34% of our outstanding capital stock. Furthermore, we have entered into a Stockholders Agreement with affiliates of SAC PCG pursuant to which they have the right to nominate to our board three, two or one directors for so long as they own at least 20%, 10% or 5% of our voting power, respectively. This concentration of ownership of our shares and the Stockholders Agreement could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of shares of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our stock price. Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities, which could adversely affect our business or prospects. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we will renounce any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to (i) members of our board of directors who are not our employees, (ii) their respective employers and (iii) affiliates of the foregoing (other than us and our subsidiaries), other than opportunities expressly presented to such directors solely in their capacity as our director. This provision will apply even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue if granted the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, no such person will be liable to us for breach of any fiduciary duty, as a director or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such person pursues or acquires any such business opportunity, directs any such business opportunity to another person or fails to present any such business opportunity, or information regarding any such business opportunity. None of such persons or entities will have any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us or any of our subsidiaries. For example, affiliates of our non-employee directors may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities such as acquisition opportunities and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested or advise, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunities. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to such persons or entities could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such persons or entities for their own benefit rather than for ours. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments None. 