ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We are an early stage company, and we expect to continue to realize significant net losses for the foreseeable future. We are at an early stage of implementing our business strategy. Old Clearwire and the Sprint WiMAX Business recorded net losses in each reporting period since their inception, and we cannot anticipate with certainty what our earnings, if any, will be in any future period. However, we expect to continue to incur significant net losses for the foreseeable future as we develop and deploy our network in new and existing markets, expand our services and pursue our business strategy. We intend to invest significantly in our business before we expect cash flow from operations will be adequate to cover our anticipated expenses. In addition, at this stage of our development we are subject to the following risks: • our results of operations may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect the value of an investment in Clearwire Class A Common Stock; • we may be unable to develop and deploy our next generation wireless broadband network, expand our services, meet the objectives we have established for our business strategy or grow our business profitably, if at all; • because of our limited operating history, it may be difficult to predict accurately our key operating and performance metrics utilized in budgeting and operational decisions; • our next generation wireless broadband network relies on mobile WiMAX technology that is new and has not been widely deployed; and • our network and related technologies may fail or the quality and number of services we are able to provide may decline if our network operates at maximum capacity for an extended period of time or fails to perform to our expectations. If we are unable to execute our business strategy and grow our business, either as a result of the risks identified in this section or for any other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. If we do not obtain additional financing, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments afford us adequate liquidity for at least the next 12 months to fund working capital, operating losses, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, including spectrum acquisitions. We also expect to require substantial additional capital in the long-term to fund our business, including 25 Table of Contents further operating losses, network expansion plans and spectrum acquisitions, and our success and viability will depend on our ability to raise such additional capital on reasonable terms. The amount and timing of our additional capital needs will depend in part on the timing and extent of our network expansion, which we may adjust based on available capital and, to a lesser degree, based on our results in our launched markets, both of which are difficult to estimate at this time. If we cannot secure sufficient additional funding, we may forego strategic opportunities or delay, scale back and eliminate network deployments, operations, spectrum acquisitions and investments. As our operations grow and expand, it may become more difficult to modulate our business plans and strategies based on the availability of this additional funding. We may not be able to secure adequate additional financing when needed on acceptable terms or at all. To raise additional capital, we may issue additional equity securities in public or private offerings, potentially at a price lower than the market price of Clearwire Class A Common Stock at the time of such issuance. We will likely seek significant additional debt financing, and as a result, will likely incur significant interest expense. Our existing level of debt may make it more difficult for us to obtain this debt financing, may reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities, may expose us to the risk of increasing interest rates, may make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions, and may reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic conditions. We also may decide to sell additional debt or equity securities in our domestic or international subsidiaries, which may dilute our ownership interest in or reduce or eliminate our income, if any, from those entities. The recent turmoil in the economy, and the worldwide financial markets in particular, may make it more difficult for us to obtain necessary additional equity and debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our substantial indebtedness and restrictive debt covenants could limit our financing options and liquidity position and may limit our ability to grow our business. In 2007, Old Clearwire borrowed $1.25 billion under a senior term loan facility. A portion of the proceeds were used to repay and retire existing loans and secured notes. The remainder of the proceeds was used for network expansion, spectrum acquisitions and for general working capital. In connection with the Closing, we amended and restated our senior credit agreement pertaining to the senior term loan facility. Under this amended and restated credit agreement, which we refer to as the Amended Credit Agreement, all obligations of Clearwire were assumed on a joint and several basis by two of our subsidiaries, Clearwire Legacy LLC and Clearwire Xohm LLC, which we refer to together as the Co-Borrowers. The Co-Borrowers’ obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are guaranteed by each of their domestic and international subsidiaries, as well as by Clearwire Communications and its domestic and international subsidiaries, which we refer to collectively as the Guarantors, excluding the assets, but including the capital stock, of Clearwire International, LLC and its subsidiaries. Collectively, the Co-Borrowers and the Guarantors directly or indirectly hold substantially all of the assets (including all associated spectrum and licenses) that we directly or indirectly held as of December 31, 2008. Additionally, on December 1, 2008, the Co-Borrowers and Clearwire Communications added an additional tranche of term loans provided by Sprint under the Amended Credit Agreement, which we refer to as the Sprint Tranche, to the initial term loans, which we refer to as the Initial Term Loans, and collectively with the Sprint Tranche as the Senior Term Loan Facility. The Sprint Tranche constituted partial repayment of an obligation to reimburse Sprint for financing the Sprint WiMAX Business between April 1, 2008 and the Closing, which we refer to as the Sprint Pre-Closing Financing Amount. The Sprint Tranche was initially in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $179.2 million. For purposes of repayment and in the event of liquidation, dissolution or bankruptcy of either of the Co-Borrowers, the Sprint Tranche is subordinated to the Initial Term Loans and obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2008, $1.41 billion of principal was outstanding under the Senior Term Loan Facility. The Senior Term Loan Facility provides for quarterly principal payments, with the remaining balance due on the final maturity date of May 28, 2011. In general, borrowings under the Senior Term Loan Facility bear interest based, at our option, on either the Euro dollar rate or on an alternate base rate, in each case plus a margin. 26 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to the holders of Clearwire Class A Common Stock, such as: • cash flows from operations and investing activities were negative for the Old Clearwire and the Sprint WiMAX Business since inception and are expected to be so for us for some time, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, operating losses, capital expenditures or acquisitions, including spectrum acquisitions, on terms acceptable to us, or at all; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all; and • our substantial indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressure. Additionally, covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement governing our Senior Term Loan Facility impose operating and financial restrictions on the Co-Borrowers, Clearwire Communications and the Guarantors. These restrictions prohibit or limit their ability, and the ability of their subsidiaries, to, among other things: • pay dividends to members of Clearwire Communications, including Clearwire; • incur, or cause certain of our subsidiaries to incur, additional indebtedness; • permit liens on or conduct sales of any assets pledged as collateral; • sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • repay existing indebtedness; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Amended Credit Agreement and could cause our repayment obligations to be accelerated. If a default causes our debt repayment obligations to be accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay the amount due in full. If we are unable to repay or refinance those amounts, the collateral agent for our Senior Term Loan Facility could proceed against the assets pledged to secure these obligations, which include substantially all of our assets. These restrictions may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, withstand downturns in our business and take advantage of business opportunities. Moreover, we may seek additional debt financing on terms that include more restrictive covenants, may require repayment on an accelerated schedule or may impose other obligations that limit our ability to grow our business, acquire needed assets, or take other actions we might otherwise consider appropriate or desirable. We have committed to deploy a wireless broadband network using mobile WiMAX technology and would incur significant costs to deploy alternative technologies, even if there are alternative technologies available in the future that would be technologically superior or more cost effective. Under the Intel Market Development Agreement, we have committed to undertake certain marketing efforts with respect to our mobile WiMAX services and are subject to certain restrictions on our ability to commercially deploy alternative wireless broadband or data technology on our networks through November 28, 2011, as long as certain requirements are satisfied. We have expended significant resources and made substantial investments to deploy a wireless broadband network using mobile WiMAX technologies. We depend on original equipment manufacturers to develop and produce mobile WiMAX equipment and subscriber devices that will operate on our network, and on Intel to cause mobile WiMAX chipsets to be embedded into laptops and other computing devices. While we have deployed mobile WiMAX networks in Portland, Oregon and Baltimore, Maryland, we cannot assure you that commercial quantities of mobile WiMAX equipment and subscriber devices that meet our requirements will continue to be available on the schedule we expect, or at all, or that vendors will continue to develop and produce mobile WiMAX equipment and subscriber devices in the long term, which may require us to deploy alternative technologies. Other competing technologies, such as LTE and Ultra Mobile Broadband, will be developed that may have advantages over mobile WiMAX, and operators of other networks based on those competing technologies may be able to deploy these alternative technologies at a lower cost and more quickly than 27 Table of Contents the cost and speed with which we deploy our network, which may allow those operators to compete more effectively, assuming they have adequate spectrum resources, or may require us to deploy such technologies when we are permitted to do so. Additionally, once fully deployed on a commercial basis, mobile WiMAX may not perform as we expect, and, therefore, we may not be able to deliver the quality or types of services we expect. The process of upgrading our pre-WiMAX markets from Expedience technology to mobile WiMAX may cost more or be more difficult to undertake than we expect. We also may discover unanticipated costs associated with deploying and maintaining our network or delivering services we must offer in order to remain competitive. These risks could reduce our subscriber growth, increase our costs of providing services or increase our churn. Churn is an industry term we use to measure the rate at which subscribers terminate service. We calculate this metric by dividing the number of subscribers who terminate their service in a given month by the average number of subscribers during that month, in each case excluding those who subscribe for and terminate our service within 30 days for any reason or in the first 90 days of service under certain circumstances. If third parties fail to develop and deliver the equipment that we need for both our existing and future networks, we may be unable to execute our business strategy or operate our business. We currently depend on third parties to develop and deliver complex systems, software and hardware products and components for our network in a timely manner, and at a high level of quality. Motorola is our sole supplier of equipment and software for the Expedience system currently deployed in our pre-WiMAX markets. The Expedience system consists of network components used by us and subscriber equipment used by our subscribers. To successfully continue to operate in most of our existing markets, Motorola must continue to support the Expedience system, including continued production of the software and hardware components. Any failure by Motorola to meet these needs for any reason may impair our ability to operate in these markets. If Motorola failed to meet our needs, we may not be able to find another supplier on terms acceptable to us, or at all. For our existing mobile WiMAX markets, our planned mobile WiMAX deployment in new markets and the upgrade of our pre-WiMAX markets to mobile WiMAX, we are relying on third parties to continue to develop and deliver in sufficient quantities the network components and subscriber devices necessary for us to build and operate our mobile WiMAX networks. As mobile WiMAX is a new and highly sophisticated technology, we cannot be certain that these third parties will be successful in their continuing development efforts. The development process for new mobile WiMAX network components and subscriber devices may be lengthy, has been subject to some short-term delays and may still encounter more significant delays. If these third parties are unable or unwilling to develop and deliver new mobile WiMAX network components and subscriber devices in sufficient quantities on a timely basis that perform according to our expectations, we may be unable to deploy a mobile WiMAX network in our new markets or to upgrade our existing markets to mobile WiMAX when we expect, or at all. If we are unable to deploy mobile WiMAX in a timely manner or mobile WiMAX fails to perform as we expect, we may be unable to execute our business strategy and our prospects and results of operations would be harmed. We may experience difficulties in constructing, upgrading and maintaining our network, which could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase subscriber churn and costs incurred, and decrease our revenues. Our success depends on developing and providing services that give subscribers a high quality experience. We expect to expend significant resources in constructing, maintaining and improving our network, including the deployment of mobile WiMAX technologies in new markets and the upgrade of our pre-WiMAX markets to mobile WiMAX. Additionally, as the number of subscribers using our network increases, as the usage habits of our subscribers change and as we increase our service offerings, we may need to upgrade our network to maintain or improve the quality of our services. We may also need to upgrade our network to stay competitive with new technologies introduced by our competitors. If we do not successfully construct, maintain and implement future upgrades to our network, the quality of our services may decline and the rate of our subscriber churn may increase. We may experience quality deficiencies, cost overruns and delays with our construction, maintenance and upgrade projects, including the portions of those projects not within our control. The construction of our network 28 Table of Contents requires permits and approvals from numerous governmental bodies, including municipalities and zoning boards. Such entities often limit the expansion of transmission towers and other construction necessary for our network. Failure to receive approvals in a timely fashion can delay new market deployments and upgrades in existing markets and raise the cost of completing construction projects. In addition, we often are required to obtain rights from land, building and tower owners to install the antennas and other equipment that provide our service to our subscribers. We may not be able to obtain, on terms acceptable to us or at all, the rights necessary to construct our network and expand our services. We also may face challenges in managing and operating our network. These challenges could include ensuring the availability of subscriber devices that are compatible with our network and managing sales, advertising, customer support, and billing and collection functions of our business while providing reliable network service that meets our subscribers’ expectations. Our failure in any of these areas could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase subscriber churn, increase our costs, decrease our revenues and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors are our largest stockholders, and as a result they together effectively have control over us and may have actual or potential interests that may diverge from yours. Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors own a majority of the voting power of Clearwire Class A Common Stock. Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors may have interests that diverge from those of other holders of our capital stock. Each of Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors are a party to the Equityholders’ Agreement, which requires, among other things, the approval of: • 75% of the voting power of all outstanding stock of Clearwire for certain actions, including any merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar transaction and any issuance of capital stock that would constitute a change of control of Clearwire or any of its subsidiaries; • each of Sprint, Intel and the representative for the Investors, as a group, so long as each of Sprint, Intel and the Investors, as a group, respectively, owns securities representing at least 5% of the outstanding voting power of Clearwire, in order to: • amend our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which we refer to as the Clearwire Charter, the bylaws of Clearwire, which we refer to as the Clearwire Bylaws, or the amended and restated Operating Agreement governing Clearwire Communications, which we refer to as the Operating Agreement; • change the size of the board of directors of Clearwire; • liquidate Clearwire or Clearwire Communications or declare bankruptcy of Clearwire or its subsidiaries; • effect any material capital reorganization of Clearwire or any of its material subsidiaries, other than a financial transaction (including securities issuances) in the ordinary course of business; • take any action that could cause Clearwire Communications or any of its material subsidiaries to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes; and • subject to certain exceptions, issue any Clearwire Class B Common Stock or any equity interests of Clearwire Communications; • Eagle River, for so long as Eagle River owns at least 50% of the shares of the Common Stock received by it in the Transactions, and the proposed action would disproportionately and adversely affect Eagle River, the public stockholders of Clearwire or Clearwire in its capacity as a member of Clearwire Communications, in order to amend the Clearwire Charter, the Clearwire Bylaws or the Operating Agreement or to change the size of the board of directors of Clearwire; and • each of Sprint, Intel and the Investors, as a group, so long as each of Sprint, Intel and the Investors, as a group, respectively, owns both (1) at least 50% of the number of shares of Common Stock received by it in the Transactions and (2) securities representing at least 5% of the outstanding voting power of 29 Table of Contents Clearwire, in order for Clearwire to enter into a transaction involving the sale of a certain percentage of the consolidated assets of Clearwire and its subsidiaries to, or the merger of Clearwire with, certain specified competitors of Sprint, Intel and the Strategic Investors. The Equityholders’ Agreement also contains provisions related to restrictions on transfer of Clearwire Class A and Class B Common Stock, rights of first offer and preemptive rights. As a result, Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors may be able to cause us to take, or prevent the taking of, actions that may conflict with your best interests as a stockholder, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the trading price of Clearwire Class A Common Stock. Clearwire and its subsidiaries may be considered subsidiaries of Sprint under certain of Sprint’s agreements relating to its indebtedness. Sprint owns approximately 51% of the voting power of Clearwire, as of February 28, 2009. As a result, Clearwire and its subsidiaries may be considered subsidiaries of Sprint under certain of Sprint’s agreements relating to its indebtedness. Those agreements govern the incurrence of indebtedness and certain other activities of Sprint’s subsidiaries. Thus, our actions may result in a violation of covenants in Sprint’s debt obligations, which may cause Sprint’s lenders to declare due and payable all of Sprint’s outstanding loan obligations, thereby severely harming Sprint’s financial condition, operations and prospects for growth. The determination of whether or not we would be considered a subsidiary under Sprint’s debt agreements is complex and subject to interpretation. Under the Equityholders’ Agreement, if we intend to take any action that may be prohibited under the terms of certain Sprint debt agreements, then Sprint will be obligated to deliver to us an officer’s certificate, which we refer to as a Compliance Certificate, and legal opinion from a nationally recognized law firm stating that our proposed actions do not violate those debt agreements. If Sprint notifies us that it cannot deliver the Compliance Certificate and legal opinion, Sprint will be obligated to take certain actions to ensure that we are no longer considered a subsidiary under its debt agreements. These actions may include surrendering board seats and voting stock. The unusual nature of this arrangement may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, regardless of whether we receive a Compliance Certificate and legal opinion as described above, we cannot be sure our actions will not violate Sprint’s debt covenants, and, if there is a violation, that Sprint’s lenders will waive such non-compliance and forbear from enforcing their rights, which could include accelerated collection of Sprint’s obligations. We will incur significant expense in complying with the terms of our 4G MVNO Agreement, and we may not recognize the benefits we expect if Sprint and certain of our Investors are not successful in reselling our services to their customers, which would adversely affect our business prospects and results. Under the 4G MVNO Agreement, Sprint and certain of our Investors have the right to resell services over our networks to their customers, and for any of their customers that purchase services over our network, Sprint and these Investors are required to pay us certain fees. However, nothing in the 4G MVNO Agreement requires Sprint or any of our Investors to resell any of these services, and they may elect not to do so or to curtail such sales activities if their efforts prove unsuccessful. In the course of implementing the terms of the 4G MVNO Agreement, we expect to incur significant expense in connection with designing billing, distribution and other systems which are necessary to facilitate such sales, and we may elect to deploy our networks in markets requested by Sprint and our Investors where we would not otherwise have launched. If Sprint and our Investors fail to resell services offered over our network in the amount we expect or at all, our business prospects and results of operations would be adversely affected. A number of our significant business arrangements are between us and parties that have an investment in or a fiduciary duty to us, and the terms of those arrangements may not be beneficial to us. We are party to a number of services, development, supply and licensing agreements with parties that have an ownership or fiduciary relationship with us, including the various commercial agreements with Sprint and the Investors described elsewhere in this report. These relationships may create actual or potential conflicts of interest, and may cause the parties to these arrangements to make decisions or take actions that do not reflect our best interests. 30 Table of Contents Our commercial agreement with Sprint and the Investors were each entered into concurrently with purchases of shares of our capital stock by such parties or their affiliates. In addition, our various commercial agreements with Sprint and the Investors provide for, among other things, access rights to towers that Sprint owns or leases, resales by us and certain Investors of bundled 2G and 3G services from Sprint, resales by Sprint and certain Investors of our 4G services, most favored reseller status with respect to economic and non-economic terms of certain service agreements, collective development of new 4G services, creation of desktop and mobile applications on the our network, the embedding of mobile WiMAX chips into various of our network devices and the development of Internet services and protocols. Except for the agreements with Google and Intel, none of these agreements restricts these parties from entering into similar arrangements with other parties. See the section titled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Directors Independence” beginning on page 122 of this report. Clearwire is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and relies on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Sprint beneficially owns approximately 51% of the outstanding voting power of Clearwire as of February 26, 2009. In addition, the Investors collectively own approximately 31% and Eagle River owns approximately 5% of the outstanding voting power of Clearwire. The Equityholders’ Agreement governs the voting of shares of Clearwire Class A and Class B Common Stock held by each of the parties thereto in certain circumstances, including with respect to the election of the individuals nominated to the board of directors of Clearwire by Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors. As a result of the combined voting power of Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors and the Equityholders’ Agreement, we rely on exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance standards. Under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by single person or a group of people is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: • a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. Unless we choose to no longer rely on these exemptions in the future, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. The corporate opportunity provisions in the Clearwire Charter could enable certain of our stockholders to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. The Clearwire Charter contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both Clearwire and certain of our stockholders, including Sprint, Eagle River and the Investors, who are referred to in the Clearwire Charter as the Founding Stockholders. These provisions provide that unless a director is an employee of Clearwire, such person does not have a duty to present to Clearwire a corporate opportunity of which he or she becomes aware, except where the corporate opportunity is expressly offered to such person in his or her capacity as a director of Clearwire. In addition, the Clearwire Charter expressly provides that our Founding Stockholders may, and have no duty not to, engage in any businesses that are similar to or competitive with that of Clearwire, do business with our competitors, customers and suppliers, and employ Clearwire’s employees or officers. The Founding Stockholders or their affiliates may deploy competing wireless broadband networks or purchase broadband services from other providers. Further, we may also compete with the Founding Stockholders or their affiliates in the area of employee recruiting and retention. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by the Founding Stockholders to themselves or their other affiliates or we lose key personnel to them. 31 Table of Contents We may sustain financial losses if Sprint fails to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us. Under the Transaction Agreement, Sprint must indemnify us against certain losses relating to, among other things, any breach of certain of Sprint’s representations as to the Sprint WiMAX Business, any pre-Closing taxes incurred by any of Sprint’s subsidiaries, litigation related to certain of Sprint’s affiliates and any liabilities unrelated to the Sprint WiMAX Business. These indemnification obligations generally continue until the statute of limitations for the applicable claim has expired. The indemnification obligations regarding Sprint’s representations as to the Sprint WiMAX Business and for liabilities unrelated to the Sprint WiMAX Business, however, each survive for three years from Closing. Sprint’s indemnification obligations are generally unlimited, with the exception of a $25 million deductible for claims based on a breach of representation that Sprint’s subsidiaries that hold the Sprint WiMAX Business have, subject to certain limited exceptions, a specific, limited set of liabilities at Closing. We cannot provide any assurances that Sprint will fulfill its indemnification obligations in accordance with the Transaction Agreement. If it turns out that the representations made by Sprint as to the Sprint WiMAX Business, for which Sprint is obligated to indemnify us under the Transaction Agreement, are inaccurate, we may sustain significant financial losses. If Sprint fails to fulfill its indemnification obligations under the Transaction Agreement to indemnify and defend us for any such financial loss or claim, as the case may be, it could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, if the time period for any indemnification claims has expired by way of the statue of limitations or by operation of the three-year period in the Transaction Agreement, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The integration of Old Clearwire’s business and the Sprint WiMAX Business will present significant challenges that may result in a decline in the anticipated benefits of the Transactions. Further, the integration may result in a less than effective system of internal controls and we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, properly safeguard our assets or prevent fraud. We are in the process of integrating the Sprint WiMAX Business and the business of Old Clearwire that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining these businesses include: • integrating successfully each of their operations, technologies, products and services; • coordinating marketing efforts to effectively promote our services; • the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and business cultures; • consolidating and rationalizing information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures as well as accounting systems and related financial reporting activities; and • maintaining an effective system of internal controls during and after the process of integration is completed. Furthermore, as it continues, the integration process may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of Old Clearwire’s ongoing businesses or the Sprint WiMAX Business, the incurrence of additional costs, inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Transactions. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our common stock. Further, not maintaining an effective system of internal controls throughout the integration process could impact our ability to report and file our financial results on an accurate and timely manner. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Transactions may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition during this transition period and for an undetermined period thereafter. 32 Table of Contents The market price of Clearwire Class A Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of Clearwire Class A Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors, either alone or in comparison to analyst’s expectations; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • announcements by us regarding the entering into, or termination of, material transactions; • disruption to our operations or those of other companies critical to our network operations; • the emergence of new competitors or new technologies; • market perceptions relating to the deployment of mobile WiMAX networks by other operators; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • seasonal or other variations in our subscriber base; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • availability of additional spectrum; • dilutive issuances of our stock or the stock of our subsidiaries, including on the exercise of outstanding warrants and options, or the incurrence of additional debt; • changes in our board or management; • adoption of new accounting standards; • Sprint’s performance may have an effect on the market price of Clearwire Class A Common Stock even though we are a separate, stand-alone company; • changes in governmental regulations or the status of our regulatory approvals; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • announcements regarding mobile WiMAX and other technical standards; • the availability or perceived availability of additional capital and market perceptions relating to our access to such capital; and • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. We believe the price of Clearwire Class A Common Stock may be subject to continued volatility. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the trading price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation or stockholder derivative suits have often been instituted against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Many of our competitors are better established and have significantly greater resources than we have, which may make it difficult to attract and retain subscribers. The market for broadband, voice and related services is highly competitive and we compete with several other companies within each of our markets. Some of our competitors are well established with larger and better developed networks and support systems, longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers, greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors may subsidize competing services with revenue from other sources and, thus, may offer their products and services at prices lower 33 Table of Contents than ours. Our competitors may also reduce the prices of their services significantly or may offer broadband connectivity packaged with other products or services. Our current competitors include: • 3G cellular PCS and other wireless providers offering wireless broadband services and capabilities, including developments in existing cellular and PCS technology that may increase network speeds or have other advantages over our services, and the introduction of future technologies such as LTE, which may enable these providers to offer services that are comparable or superior to ours; • incumbent and competitive local exchange carriers providing DSL services over their existing wide, metropolitan and local area networks; • wireline operators offering high-speed Internet connectivity services and voice communications over cable or fiber optic networks; • satellite and fixed wireless service providers offering or developing broadband Internet connectivity and VoIP and other telephony services; • municipalities and other entities operating Wi-Fi networks, some of which are free or subsidized; • Internet service providers offering dial-up Internet connectivity; • electric utilities and other providers offering or planning to offer broadband Internet connectivity over power lines; and • resellers, mobile virtual network operators, which we refer to as MVNOs, or wholesalers providing wireless Internet or other wireless services using infrastructure developed and operated by others, including Sprint and the Investors who have the right to sell services purchased from us under the 4G MVNO Agreement. Our residential voice and planned mobile voice services will also face significant competition. Primarily, our mobile VoIP service offering will compete with many of our current competitors that also provide voice communications services. Additionally, we may face competition from companies that offer VoIP telephony services over networks operated by third parties. We expect other existing and prospective competitors to adopt technologies or business plans similar to ours, or seek other means to develop services competitive with ours, particularly if our services prove to be attractive in our target markets. There can be no assurances that there will be sufficient customer demand for services offered over our network in the same markets to allow multiple operators, if any, to succeed. Additionally, AT&T, and Verizon Wireless, among others, have announced plans to deploy LTE technology, with Verizon Wireless announcing that they expect to launch service beginning in 2010. This service may provide significant competition when it becomes available in the future. The industries in which we operate are continually evolving, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and increases the risk of your investment. Our products and services may become obsolete, and we may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all. The broadband services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Additionally, our planned deployment of mobile WiMAX depends on the continued development and delivery of commercially sufficient quantities of network equipment and subscriber devices based on the mobile WiMAX standard from third-party suppliers. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these and other challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. We face a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with our reliance on future technological development, such as: • existing service providers may use more traditional and commercially proven means to deliver similar or alternative services; • new service providers may use more efficient, less expensive technologies, including products not yet invented or developed; 34 Table of Contents • consumers may not subscribe to our services or may not be willing to pay the amount we expect to receive for our services; • we may not be able to realize economies of scale; • our subscribers may elect to cancel our services at rates that are greater than we expect; • we may be unable to respond successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner; • we may lack the financial and operational resources necessary to enable the development and deployment of network components and software that do not currently exist and that may require substantial upgrades to or replacements of existing infrastructure; and • existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies may render our existing or planned services less profitable or obsolete. As our services and those offered by our competitors develop, businesses and consumers, including our current subscribers, may not accept our services as an attractive alternative to other means of receiving wireless broadband services. If we do not obtain and maintain rights to use licensed spectrum in one or more markets, we may be unable to operate in these markets, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. To offer our services using licensed spectrum both in the United States and internationally, we depend on our ability to acquire and maintain sufficient rights to use spectrum through ownership or long-term leases in each of the markets in which we operate or intend to operate. Obtaining the necessary amount of licensed spectrum in these markets can be a long and difficult process that can be costly and require a disproportionate amount of our resources. We may not be able to acquire, lease or maintain the spectrum necessary to execute our business strategy. In addition, we have in the past and may continue to spend significant resources to acquire spectrum in additional or existing markets, even if the amount of spectrum actually acquired in certain markets is not adequate to deploy our network on a commercial basis in all such markets. Using licensed spectrum, whether owned or leased, poses additional risks to us, including: • inability to satisfy build-out or service deployment requirements on which some of our spectrum licenses or leases are, or may be, conditioned, which may result in the loss of our rights to the spectrum subject to the requirements; • adverse changes to regulations governing our spectrum rights; • inability to use a portion of the spectrum we have acquired or leased due to interference from licensed or unlicensed operators in our band or in adjacent bands; • refusal by the FCC, or one or more foreign licensing authorities to recognize our acquisition or lease of spectrum licenses from others or our investments in other license holders; • inability to offer new services or to expand existing services to take advantage of new capabilities of our network resulting from advancements in technology due to regulations governing our spectrum rights; • inability to control leased spectrum due to contractual disputes with, or the bankruptcy or other reorganization of, the license holders, or third parties; • failure of the FCC or other regulators to renew our spectrum licenses or those of our lessors as they expire; • failure to obtain extensions or renewals of spectrum leases, or an inability to renegotiate such leases, on terms acceptable to us before they expire, which may result in the loss of spectrum we need to operate our network in the market covered by the spectrum leases; 35 Table of Contents • potentially significant increases in spectrum prices, because of increased competition for the limited supply of licensed spectrum both in the United States and internationally; and • invalidation of our authorization to use all or a significant portion of our spectrum, resulting in, among other things, impairment charges related to assets recorded for such spectrum. We expect the FCC to make additional spectrum available from time to time. Additionally, other companies hold spectrum rights that could be made available for lease or sale. The availability of additional spectrum in the marketplace could change the market value of spectrum rights generally and, as a result, may adversely affect the value of our spectrum assets. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to provide our services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Old Clearwire has experienced service interruptions in some markets in the past and we may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. Any service interruption adversely affects our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We may make significant capital expenditures in an effort to increase the reliability of our systems, but these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. Our services depend on the development and continuing operation of various information technology and communications systems, including our billing system, some of which are not within our control. Currently, we do not have in place information technology and communication systems that will meet all of our future business requirements. Thus, we must be able to develop these information technology and communication systems, and any failure to do so may limit our ability to offer the services we intend to offer and may adversely affect our operating results. Any damage to or failure of our current or future information technology and communications systems could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service could reduce our revenues and profits, and our brand could be damaged if people believe our network is unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be adequate. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our network centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our service and adversely affect our operating results. Certain aspects of our VoIP residential telephony services differ from traditional telephone service, which may limit the attractiveness of our services. We intend to continue to offer residential VoIP telephony as a value added service with our wireless broadband Internet service. Our residential VoIP telephony services differ from traditional phone service in several respects, including: • our subscribers may experience lower call quality than they experience with traditional wireline telephone companies, including static, echoes and transmission delays; • our subscribers may experience higher dropped-call rates than they experience with traditional wireline telephone companies; and • a power loss or Internet access interruption may cause our service to be interrupted. If our subscribers do not accept the differences between our residential VoIP telephony services and traditional telephone service, they may not adopt or keep our residential VoIP telephony services or our other services, or may choose to retain or return to service provided by traditional telephone companies. Although we are compliant with the FCC’s November 28, 2005 mandate that all interconnected VoIP providers transmit all 911 calls to the appropriate public safety answering point, our VoIP emergency calling service is significantly more limited than the emergency calling services offered by traditional telephone companies. Our VoIP emergency calling service can transmit to a dispatcher at a public safety answering point only the location 36 Table of Contents information that the subscriber has registered with us, which may at times be different from the actual location at the time of the call due to the portability of our services. As a result, if our subscribers fail to properly register or update their registered locations, our emergency calling systems may not assure that the appropriate public safety answering point is reached and may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of emergency assistance. Our failure to develop or operate an adequate emergency calling service could subject us to substantial liabilities and may result in delays in subscriber adoption of our VoIP services or our other services, abandonment of our services by subscribers, and litigation costs, damage awards and negative publicity, any of which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Finally, potential changes by the FCC to current intercarrier compensation mechanisms could result in significant changes to our costs of providing VoIP telephony, thereby eliminating pricing benefits between VoIP telephony services and traditional telephone services and our potential profitability. If our data security measures are breached or customer data is compromised, subscribers may perceive our network and services as not secure. Our network security and the authentication of our subscriber credentials are designed to protect unauthorized access to data on our network. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against us, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate preventive measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. Consequently, unauthorized parties may overcome our network security and obtain access to data on our network, including on a device connected to our network. In addition, because we operate and control our network and our subscribers’ Internet connectivity, unauthorized access or sabotage of our network could result in damage to our network and to the computers or other devices used by our subscribers. An actual or perceived breach of network security, regardless of our responsibility, could harm public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures, adversely affect our ability to attract and retain subscribers, expose us to significant liability and adversely affect our business prospects. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition, lease, maintenance and use of spectrum licenses are extensively regulated by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. These regulations are subject to change over time. In addition, a number of other federal, state, local and foreign privacy, security and consumer laws also apply to our business, including our interconnected VoIP telephony service. These regulations and their application are subject to continual change as new legislation, regulations or amendments to existing regulations are adopted from time to time by governmental or regulatory authorities, including as a result of judicial interpretations of such laws and regulations. For example, it is also possible that the FCC could subject our capital stock to foreign ownership limitations. If our capital stock were to become subject to such limitations, owners of our capital stock may become subject to obligatory redemption provisions, such as those in the Clearwire Charter. Such restrictions may also decrease the value of our stock by reducing the pool of potential investors in our company and making the acquisition of control of us by potential foreign investors more difficult. Current regulations directly affect the breadth of services we are able to offer and may impact the rates, terms and conditions of our services. FCC spectrum licensing, service and other current or future rules, or interpretations of current or future rules, could affect the breadth of the IP-based broadband services we are able to offer, including IP telephony, video and certain other services. Regulation of companies that offer competing services, such as cable and DSL providers and incumbent telecommunications carriers, also affects our business indirectly. In order to provide “interconnected” VoIP service, we need to obtain, on behalf of our customers, North American Numbering Plan telephone numbers, the availability of which may be limited in certain geographic areas of the United States and subject to other regulatory restrictions. As an “interconnected” VoIP and facilities-based wireless broadband provider, we were required under FCC rules, by May 2007, to comply with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, which we refer to as CALEA, which requires service providers to build certain capabilities into their networks and to accommodate wiretap requests from law enforcement agencies. 37 Table of Contents In addition, the FCC or other regulatory authorities may in the future restrict our ability to manage subscribers’ use of our network, thereby limiting our ability to prevent or manage subscribers’ excessive bandwidth demands. To maintain the quality of our network and user experience, we manage our network by limiting the bandwidth used by our subscribers’ applications, in part by restricting the types of applications that may be used over our network. These practices are set forth in our Acceptable Use Policy. Some providers and users of these applications have objected to this practice. If the FCC or other regulatory authorities were to adopt regulations that constrain our ability to employ bandwidth management practices, excessive use of bandwidth-intensive applications would likely reduce the quality of our services for all subscribers. A decline in the quality of our services could harm our business, or even result in litigation from dissatisfied subscribers. In certain of our international markets, we may be required to obtain a license for the use of regulated radio frequencies from national, provincial or local regulatory authorities before providing our services. Where required, regulatory authorities may have significant discretion in granting the licenses and in determining the conditions for use of the frequencies covered by the licenses, and are often under no obligation to renew the licenses when they expire. Additionally, even where we currently hold a license or successfully obtain a license in the future, we may be required to seek modifications to the license or the regulations applicable to the license to implement our business strategy. For example, in certain international markets, the licenses we hold, and the applicable rules and regulations, currently do not specifically permit us to provide mobile services. Thus, before offering mobile services to our subscribers in those markets, absent action by the regulatory authorities to modify the licenses and applicable rules, we may need to obtain the approval of the proper regulatory authorities. The breach of a license or applicable law, even if inadvertent, can result in the revocation, suspension, cancellation or reduction in the term of a license or the imposition of fines. In addition, regulatory authorities may grant new licenses to third parties, resulting in greater competition in territories where we already have rights to licensed spectrum. In order to promote competition, licenses may also require that third parties be granted access to our bandwidth, frequency capacity, facilities or services. We may not be able to obtain or retain any required license, and we may not be able to renew our licenses on favorable terms, or at all. Our wireless broadband and VoIP telephony services may become subject to greater or different state or federal regulation in the future. The scope of any additional regulations or changes in the existing regulations that may apply to 2.5 GHz wireless broadband and VoIP telephony services providers and the impact of such regulations on providers’ competitive position are presently unknown. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which could reduce the value of our services and our brand. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our proprietary network and system designs. We may not be able to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights. We rely on patents, trademarks and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property, however, is not covered by any of these protections. Any failure to protect our intellectual property, including a failure to obtain requested patents or trademark registrations, may reduce the value of our services and our brand or may result in the loss of rights in which we have invested significant time or costs. Our pending patent applications may not be granted or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our intellectual property. Even if all of our patent applications were issued and were sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. In addition, the United States Patent and Trademark Office may not grant federal registrations based on our pending trademark applications. Even if federal registrations are granted, these trademark rights may be challenged. Moreover, patent and trademark applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to obtain and enforce. We could, therefore, incur substantial costs in prosecuting patent and trademark infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights. 38 Table of Contents We could be subject to claims that we have infringed on the proprietary rights of others, which claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use necessary technologies in the future. Competitors or other persons may have independently developed or patented technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours or that are necessary to permit us to deploy and operate our network, whether based on Expedience or mobile WiMAX technology, or to offer additional services, such as VoIP, or competitors may develop or patent such technologies or processes in the future. These persons may claim that our services and products infringe on these patents or other proprietary rights. For instance, certain third parties claim that they hold patents relating to certain aspects of mobile WiMAX and VoIP technology. These third parties may seek to enforce these patent rights against the operators of mobile WiMAX networks and VoIP telephony service providers, such as us. One such party, Adaptix, Inc., which we refer to as Adaptix, has already sued us for patent infringement alleging that we infringed on seven patents related to mobile WiMAX technology. Defending against infringement claims such as Adaptix can be time consuming, distracting and costly, even if the claims prove to be without merit. If we are found to be infringing the proprietary rights of a third party, we could be enjoined from using such third party’s rights, may be required to pay substantial royalties and damages, and may no longer be able to use the intellectual property subject to such rights on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to obtain licenses to intellectual property held by third parties on reasonable terms, or at all, could delay or prevent the development or deployment of our services and could cause us to expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. Our business will depend on a strong brand, and if we do not develop, maintain and enhance our brands, our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be impaired and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We believe that our brands will be a critical part of our business. Developing, maintaining and enhancing our brands may require us to make substantial investments with no assurance that these investments will be successful. If we fail to develop, promote and maintain strong brands, or if we incur significant expenses to promote the brands and are still unsuccessful in maintaining a strong brand, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We anticipate that developing, maintaining and enhancing our brands will become increasingly important, difficult and expensive now that we are focused on integrating the brands of the Sprint WiMAX Business with those of Old Clearwire under the Cleartm brand. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties, dilution, adverse financial reporting impact and distractions from our core business. We and Old Clearwire, have entered, and we may in the future enter, into strategic transactions, including strategic supply and service agreements and acquisitions of other assets and businesses. Any such transactions can be risky, may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources and may create unforeseen operating difficulties or expenditures, including: • difficulties in integrating acquired technologies and operations into our business while maintaining uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • obligations imposed on us by counterparties in such transactions that limit our ability to obtain additional financing, our ability to compete in geographic areas or specific lines of business, or other aspects of our operational flexibility; • increasing cost and complexity of assuring the implementation and maintenance of adequate internal control and disclosure controls and procedures, and of obtaining the reports and attestations required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act; • increasing cost and complexity in the proper application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which we refer to as GAAP; 39 Table of Contents • difficulties in consolidating and preparing our financial statements due to poor accounting records, weak financial controls and, in some cases, financial records at acquired entities not based on U.S. GAAP particularly those entities in which we lack control; and • inability to predict or anticipate market developments and capital commitments relating to the acquired company, business or technology. The anticipated benefit of any of our strategic transactions may never materialize. Future investments, acquisitions or dispositions, or similar arrangements could result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or impairment of assets, tangible or intangible, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Any such transactions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Old Clearwire has experienced certain of these risks in connection with its acquisitions and investments in the past, and the occurrence of any of these risks in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the uncertainty in the credit markets may adversely affect the value and liquidity of some of our short-term investments. Our businesses outside the United States operate in a competitive environment different than the environment within the United States. Any difficulties in managing these businesses could occupy a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and disrupt our operations. We operate or hold spectrum outside of the United States through our subsidiaries in Belgium, Ireland, Germany, Poland, Romania and Spain and an investment in Mexico. Subject to the limitations imposed by the Equityholders’ Agreement, we may elect to pursue additional opportunities in certain international markets through acquisitions and strategic alliances; however, our focus will be on markets within the United States. Our activities outside the United States operate in different environments than we face in the United States, particularly with respect to regulation of competition and spectrum. Due to these differences, our activities outside the United States may require a disproportionate amount of our management and financial resources, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business elsewhere. In a number of international markets, we face substantial competition from local service providers that offer or may offer their own wireless broadband or VoIP telephony services and from other companies that provide Internet connectivity services. We may face heightened challenges in gaining market share, particularly in certain European countries, where a large portion of the population already has broadband Internet connectivity and incumbent companies already have a dominant market share in their service areas. Furthermore, foreign providers of competing services may have a substantial advantage over us in attracting subscribers due to a more established brand, greater knowledge of local subscribers’ preferences and access to significant financial or strategic resources. In addition, in some international markets, foreign governmental authorities may own or control the incumbent telecommunications companies operating under their jurisdiction. Established relationships between government-owned or government-controlled telecommunications companies and their traditional local telecommunications providers often limit access of third parties to these markets. The successful expansion of our international operations in some markets may depend on our ability to locate, form and maintain strong relationships with established local communication services and equipment providers. Failure to establish these relationships or to market or sell our products and services successfully could limit our ability to attract subscribers to our services. We rely on highly skilled executives and other personnel. If we cannot retain and motivate key personnel, we may be unable to implement our business strategy. Our future success depends largely on the expertise and reputation of the members of our senior management team, including William T. Morrow, our Chief Executive Officer, Benjamin G. Wolff, our Co-Chairman, Barry West, our President, Perry Satterlee, our Chief Operating Officer, and David J. Sach, our Chief Financial Officer. In addition, we intend to hire additional highly skilled individuals to staff our operations and our support functions. Loss of any of our key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals for our domestic and international operations could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and operate our business. 40 Table of Contents In addition, to successfully introduce our services in new markets and grow our business in existing domestic and international markets, we rely on the skills of our general managers in these markets. If we cannot hire, train and retain motivated and well-qualified individuals to serve as general managers in our markets, we may face difficulties in attracting, recruiting and retaining various sales and support personnel in those markets, which may lead to difficulties in growing our subscriber base. The tax allocation methods to be adopted by Clearwire Communications are likely to result in disproportionate allocations of taxable income. Clearwire and Sprint have contributed to Clearwire Communications assets that have a material amount of built-in gain for income tax purposes — meaning that the fair market value ascribed to those assets at the time of contribution, as reflected in the initial capital account balances and percentage interests in Clearwire Communications received by Clearwire and Sprint, is greater than the current basis of those assets for tax purposes. For this purpose, the fair market value ascribed to those assets at the time of contribution was calculated based upon a value of $17 per Clearwire Communications Class A and Class B Common Interest plus liabilities assumed by Clearwire Communications at the time of contribution. We refer to contributed assets that have a fair market value that exceeds the tax basis of those assets on the date of contribution as built-in gain assets. Under Section 704(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which we refer to as the Code, items of income, gain, loss or deduction of Clearwire Communications must be allocated among its members for tax purposes in a manner that takes account of the difference between the tax basis and the fair market value of the built-in gain assets. The built-in gain assets of Clearwire Communications with the largest amounts of built-in gain are spectrum and other intangible property. Clearwire Communications will maintain a capital account for each member, which will reflect the fair market value of the property contributed by that member to Clearwire Communications and the amount of which generally will correspond to the member’s percentage interest in Clearwire Communications. For capital account purposes, Clearwire Communications will amortize the value of the contributed built-in gain assets, generally on a straight-line basis over a period of up to 15 years, and each member will be allocated amortization deductions, generally on a pro rata basis in proportion to the number of Clearwire Communications Class A and Class B Common Interests held by the member as compared to the total number of Clearwire Communications Class A and Class B Common Interests. Tax amortization on a built-in gain asset, which will be based on the tax basis of that asset, will be allocated first to the non-contributing members (meaning members other than Clearwire, in the case of former Clearwire assets, and members other than Sprint, in the case of former Sprint assets), in an amount up to the capital account amortization allocated to that member with respect to that asset. Thus, the consequence of the built-in gain will be that Clearwire, in the case of former Clearwire assets, will be allocated amortization deductions for tax purposes that are less than its share of the capital account amortization with respect to those assets. In this circumstance, Clearwire will recognize over time, in the form of lower tax amortization deductions, the built-in gain for which it was given economic credit at the time of formation of Clearwire Communications. If there is not enough tax basis in a built-in gain asset to make tax allocations of amortization deductions to the non-contributing members in an aggregate amount equal to their capital account amortization with respect to that asset, then the regulations under Section 704(c) of the Code permit the members to choose one of several methods to account for this difference. Under the Operating Agreement all of the built-in gain assets contributed by Clearwire and 50% of the built-in gain in the assets contributed by Sprint will be accounted for under the so-called “remedial” method. Under that method, the non-contributing members will be allocated “phantom” tax amortization deductions in the amount necessary to cause their tax amortization deductions to be equal to their capital account amortization on the built-in gain asset, and the contributing member (Clearwire, in the case of Old Clearwire assets) will be allocated a matching item of phantom ordinary income. The remedial method is intended to ensure that the entire tax burden with respect to the built-in gain on a built-in gain asset is borne by the contributing member. Under the Operating Agreement, the remaining 50% of the built-in gain in the assets contributed by Sprint will be accounted for under the so-called “traditional” method. Under that method, the tax amortization deductions allocated to the non-contributing members with respect to a built-in gain asset are limited to the actual tax amortization arising from the built-in gain asset. The effect of the traditional method is that some of the tax burden with respect to the built-in gain on a built-in gain asset is shifted to the non-contributing members, in the form of reduced tax amortization deductions. 41 Table of Contents The use of the remedial method for all of the Old Clearwire assets, but for only a portion of the former Sprint assets, means that Clearwire will bear the entire tax burden with respect to the built-in gain on the Old Clearwire assets, and will have shifted to it a portion of the tax burden with respect to the built-in gain on the former Sprint assets. Accordingly, Clearwire is likely to be allocated a share of the taxable income of Clearwire Communications that exceeds its proportionate economic interest in Clearwire Communications, and Clearwire may incur a material liability for taxes. However, subject to the existing and possible future limitations on the use of Clearwire’s net operating losses, which we refer to as NOLs, under Section 382 and Section 384 of the Code, Clearwire’s NOLs are generally expected to be available to offset, to the extent of these NOLs, items of income and gain allocated to Clearwire by Clearwire Communications. See “Risk Factors — The ability of Clearwire to use its net operating losses to offset its income and gain is subject to limitation.” Clearwire Communications is required to make distributions to Clearwire in amounts necessary to pay all taxes reasonably determined by Clearwire to be payable with respect to its distributive share of the taxable income of Clearwire Communications, after taking into account the net operating loss deductions and other tax benefits reasonably expected to be available to Clearwire. See the sections titled “Risk Factors — Mandatory tax distributions may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business” and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence” beginning on pages 43 and 122, respectively, of this report. Sales of certain former Clearwire assets by Clearwire Communications may trigger taxable gain to Clearwire. If Clearwire Communications sells in a taxable transaction an Old Clearwire asset that had built-in gain at the time of its contribution to Clearwire Communications, then, under Section 704(c) of the Code, the tax gain on the sale of the asset generally will be allocated first to Clearwire in an amount up to the remaining (unamortized) portion of the built-in gain on the Old Clearwire asset. Under the Operating Agreement, unless Clearwire Communications has a bona fide non-tax business need (as defined in the Operating Agreement), Clearwire Communications will not enter into a taxable sale of Old Clearwire assets that are intangible property and that would cause Clearwire to be allocated under Section 704(c) more than $10 million of built-in gains during any 36-month period. For this purpose, Clearwire Communications will have a bona fide non-tax business need with respect to the sale of Old Clearwire assets, if (1) the taxable sale of the Old Clearwire assets will serve a bona fide business need of Clearwire Communications’ wireless broadband business and (2) neither the taxable sale nor the reinvestment or other use of the proceeds is significantly motivated by the desire to obtain increased income tax benefits for the members or to impose income tax costs on Clearwire. Accordingly, Clearwire may recognize built-in gain on the sale of Old Clearwire assets (1) in an amount up to $10 million, in any 36-month period, and (2) in greater amounts, if the standard of bona fide non-tax business need is satisfied. If Clearwire Communications sells Old Clearwire assets with unamortized built-in gain, then Clearwire is likely to be allocated a share of the taxable income of Clearwire Communications that exceeds its proportionate economic interest in Clearwire Communications, and may incur a material liability for taxes. However, subject to the existing and possible future limitations on the use of Clearwire’s NOLs under Section 382 and Section 384 of the Code, Clearwire’s NOLs are generally expected to be available to offset, to the extent of these NOLs, items of income and gain allocated to Clearwire by Clearwire Communications. See the section titled “Risk Factors — The ability of Clearwire to use its net operating losses to offset its income and gain is subject to limitation” beginning on page 44 of this report. Clearwire Communications is required to make distributions to Clearwire in amounts necessary to pay all taxes reasonably determined by Clearwire to be payable with respect to its distributive share of the taxable income of Clearwire Communications, after taking into account the net operating loss deductions and other tax benefits reasonably expected to be available to Clearwire. See the sections titled “Risk Factors — Mandatory tax distributions may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business” and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence” beginning on pages 43 and 122, respectively, of this report. Sprint and the Investors may shift to Clearwire the tax burden of additional built-in gain through a holding company exchange. Under the Operating Agreement, Sprint or an Investor may effect an exchange of Clearwire Communications Class B Common Interests and Clearwire Class B Common Stock for Clearwire Class A Common Stock by transferring to Clearwire a holding company that owns the Clearwire Communications Class B Common Interests 42 Table of Contents and Clearwire Class B Common Stock in a transaction intended to be tax-free for United States federal income tax purposes (which the Operating Agreement refers to as a holding company exchange). In particular, if Clearwire, as the managing member of Clearwire Communications, has approved a taxable sale by Clearwire Communications of former Sprint assets that are intangible property and that would cause Sprint to be allocated under Section 704(c) of the Code more than $10 million of built-in gain during any 36-month period, then, during a specified 15-business-day period, Clearwire Communications will be precluded from entering into any binding contract for the taxable sale of the former Sprint assets, and Sprint will have the right to transfer Clearwire Communications Class B Common Interests and Clearwire Class B Common Stock to one or more holding companies, and to transfer those holding companies to Clearwire in holding company exchanges. In any holding company exchange, Clearwire will succeed to all of the built-in gain and other tax characteristics associated with the transferred Clearwire Communications Class B Common Interests, including (1) in the case of a transfer by Sprint, any remaining portion of the built-in gain existing at the formation of Clearwire Communications and associated with the transferred Clearwire Communications Class B Common Interests, and any Section 704(c) consequences associated with that built-in gain, and (2) in the case of any transfer, any built-in gain arising after the formation of Clearwire Communications and associated with the transferred Clearwire Communications Class B Common Interests. Section 384 of the Code may limit the ability of Clearwire to use its NOLs arising before the holding company exchange to offset any built-in gain of Sprint or an Investor to which Clearwire succeeds in such an exchange. Accordingly, Clearwire may incur a material liability for taxes as a result of a holding company exchange, even if it has substantial NOLs. Clearwire Communications is required to make distributions to Clearwire in amounts necessary to pay all taxes reasonably determined by Clearwire to be payable with respect to its distributive share of the taxable income of Clearwire Communications, after taking into account the net operating loss deductions and other tax benefits reasonably expected to be available to Clearwire. See the sections titled “Risk Factors — Mandatory tax distributions may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business” below and “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” beginning on page 122 of this report. Mandatory tax distributions may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business. Under the Operating Agreement, Clearwire Communications will make distributions to its members, generally on a pro rata basis in proportion to the number of Clearwire Communications Class A and Class B Common Interests held by each member, in amounts so that the aggregate portion distributed to Clearwire in each instance will be the amount necessary to pay all taxes then reasonably determined by Clearwire to be payable with respect to its distributive share of the taxable income of Clearwire Communications (including any items of income, gain, loss or deduction allocated to Clearwire under the principles of Section 704(c) of the Code), after taking into account all net operating loss deductions and other tax benefits reasonably expected to be available to Clearwire. These mandatory tax distributions, which must be made on a pro rata basis to all members even if those members are allocated less income, proportionately, than is Clearwire, may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business. Tax loans Clearwire Communications may be required to make to Sprint in connection with the sale of certain former Sprint built-in gain assets may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business. Under the Operating Agreement, if Clearwire Communications or any of its subsidiaries enters into a transaction that results in the recognition of any portion of the built-in gain with respect to a former Sprint asset (other than in connection with the dissolution of Clearwire Communications or the disposition of certain specified Sprint assets), Clearwire Communications will be required, upon delivery by Sprint of a timely request therefore, to make a tax loan to Sprint on the terms set forth in the Operating Agreement. The principal amount of any tax loan to Sprint will be the amount by which the built-in gain recognized by Sprint on the sale of former Sprint assets exceeds any tax losses allocated by Clearwire Communications to Sprint in the taxable year in which the sale of such built in gain assets occurs, multiplied by then-highest marginal federal and state income tax rates applicable to corporations resident in the state in which Sprint’s principal corporate offices are located (taking into account the deductibility of state taxes for federal income tax purposes). Interest on any tax loan will be payable by Sprint to Clearwire Communications semiannually at a floating rate equal to the higher of (a) the interest rate for Clearwire 43 Table of Contents Communications’ unsecured floating rate indebtedness and (b) the interest rate for Sprint’s unsecured floating rate indebtedness plus 200 basis points. Principal on any tax loan to Sprint is payable in equal annual installments from the loan date to the later of (x) the 15th anniversary of the Closing or (y) the first anniversary of the loan date. Any tax loan that Clearwire Communications is required to make to Sprint may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business. The ability of Clearwire to use its net operating losses to offset its income and gain is subject to limitation. At present, Clearwire has substantial NOLs for United States federal income tax purposes. In particular, we believe that Clearwire’s cumulative tax loss as of December 31, 2008, for United States federal income tax purposes, was approximately $1.3 billion. A portion of Clearwire’s NOLs is subject to certain annual limitations imposed under Section 382 of the Code. Subject to the existing Section 382 limitations, and the possibility that further limitations under Sections 382 and 384 may arise after the Closing, Clearwire’s NOLs generally will be available to offset items of income and gain allocated to Clearwire by Clearwire Communications. The use by Clearwire of its NOLs may be further limited if Clearwire is affected by an “ownership change,” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code. Broadly, Clearwire will have an ownership change if, over a three-year period, the portion of the stock of Clearwire, by value, owned by one or more “five-percent stockholders” increases by more than 50 percentage points. An exchange by Sprint or an Investor of Clearwire Communications Class B Common Interests and Clearwire Class B Common Stock for Clearwire Class A Common Stock may cause or contribute to an ownership change of Clearwire. Clearwire has no control over the timing of any such exchange. If Clearwire undergoes an ownership change, then the amount of the pre-ownership change NOLs of Clearwire that may be used to offset income of Clearwire arising in each taxable year after the ownership change generally will be limited to the product of the fair market value of the stock of Clearwire at the time of the ownership change and a specified rate based on long-term tax-exempt bond yields. Separately, under Section 384 of the Code, Clearwire may not be permitted to offset built-in gain in assets acquired by it in certain tax-free transactions, if the gain is recognized within five years of the acquisition of the built-in gain assets, with NOLs arising before the acquisition of the built-in gain assets. Section 384 may apply to built-in gain to which Clearwire succeeds in the case of a holding company exchange by Sprint or an Investor. Any limitation on the ability of Clearwire to use its NOLs to offset income allocable to Clearwire increases the likelihood that Clearwire Communications will be required to make a tax distribution to Clearwire. If Clearwire Communications does not have sufficient liquidity to make those distributions, it may be forced to borrow funds, issue equity or sell assets on terms that are unfavorable to Clearwire Communications. Sales of assets in order to enable Clearwire Communications to make the necessary distributions could further increase the tax liability of Clearwire, resulting in the need to make additional distributions and, as discussed above, possible additional tax loans to Sprint. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved staff comments as of December 31, 2008. 