Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Financial Results We have limited cash resources, an accumulated deficit, are not currently profitable and expect to incur significant expenses in the near future. As of June 30, 2011, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $100,000. We have incurred a substantial net loss for the period from our inception on August 22, 2008 to June 30, 2011, and are currently experiencing negative cash flow. We expect to continue to experience negative cash flow and operating losses through calendar year 2011 and possibly thereafter. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability. 8 We may fail to become and remain profitable or we may be unable to fund our continuing losses, in which case our business may fail. We are focused on product development and have generated minimal revenue to date. We do not believe we will begin earning more than minimal revenues from operations until fiscal 2012 as we transition from a development stage company and / or complete a proposed acquisition. We have incurred operating losses since our inception. Our net loss for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 and the period from August 22, 2008 (inception) to June 30, 2011 was $755,275, $1,000,057 and $1,822,435, respectively. As of June 30, 2011, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of $1,822,435. We will be required to raise additional capital to fund our operations. If we cannot raise needed additional capital in the future, we will be required to cease operations. Based on our current plans, we believe our existing financial resources, and interest earned thereon, will not be sufficient to meet our operating expenses and capital requirements. We will need additional capital within the next 90 days to sustain our operations in the near term and estimate that we will require approximately $1.0 million over the next 12 months in order to finance the development of our business plan and fund operating expenses. We plan to seek such additional funding through private placement offerings of our securities. You should be aware that in the future: · We may not obtain additional financial resources when necessary or on terms favorable to us, if at all; and · Any available additional financing may not be adequate. If we cannot raise additional funds when needed, or on acceptable terms, we will not be able to begin development or implementation of our business plan. We require substantial working capital to fund our operations. Since we do not expect to generate significant revenues in the foreseeable future, in order to fund operations, we will be completely dependent on additional debt and equity financing arrangements. There is no assurance that any financing will be sufficient to fund our capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements even for the immediate future. No assurance can be given that any such additional funding will be available or that, if available, can be obtained on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we will not be able to develop or implement our business plan, take advantage of any future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. A material shortage of capital will require us to take drastic steps such as reducing our level of operations, disposing of selected assets or seeking an acquisition partner. If cash is insufficient, we will not be able to continue operations. Our purposes in completing the reverse merger was to pursue our new business plan, but no assurance can be made that we can successfully implement our new business plan. In the fall of 2009 we made the decision to reposition the company and focus our business on the GreenTech and eWaste sectors. Youchange has developed a comprehensive business plan and plan of operations, including paying and providing reward points to businesses and consumers, for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise surplus, end-of-life and obsolete electronic devices through acquired or established refurbishment centers and certified recycling eWaste partners. Revenue is expected to be generated from the sales and reCommerce of these products as well as management fees for proprietary data. In addition, electronic products and devices determined to be at the end of their useful life will be responsibly recycled through strategic recycling partners. Youchange has conducted research and analysis of these sectors and believes that significant opportunities exist to build a successful business in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors. Although youchange has generated only minimal revenues from its business plan in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors, the Company has developed a business concept that should allow us to more quickly build a business in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors and will be led by a management team with experience and existing relationships in the electronic and environmental sustainability sectors. Although no assurances can be made that this strategy will be successful, we believe the recent completion of the reverse merger to become a publicly traded company is in our best interests and the best interests of our shareholders. 9 We have insufficient capital to implement our repositioned business plan. Although we have taken steps to reposition the Company and focus our business on the GreenTech and eWaste sectors with the closing of the recent reverse merger, we currently have no ability to fund the development and implementation of the entire business plan. We currently have minimal revenue, so we expect to rely on external sources of capital through the issuance of debt and/or equity securities in private placement offerings to provide funding for our business. No assurances can be made that we will be successful in obtaining additional funding on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. We have deferred, and may continue to defer, payment of some of our obligations, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain goods and services in the future. We estimate that we will require approximately $1.0 million to carry out our business plan and meet our expenses for the next 12 months and $0.5 million to satisfy our immediate obligations over the next 90 days. Our immediate obligations primarily include only professional fees related to audit and review services by our auditors, payment for services rendered by our officers, legal expense and so forth. Until such time, if at all, as we receive adequate funding, we intend to defer payment of all other obligations that are capable of being deferred. Such deferral has resulted in the past, and may result in the future, in some vendors demanding cash payment for their goods and services in advance, and other vendors refusing to continue to do business with us, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain goods and services in the future, or to do so on favorable terms. We will need to take significant additional actions to secure required facilities and establish processes for our business plan and expect to incur losses during such period. Because we have just recently commenced implementation of our repositioned business in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors, we have to take additional actions to secure electronic refurbishment centers and recycling facilities as well as build the infrastructure necessary to implement the operational processes for the business. In addition, to compete effectively, any future products or services must be easy to use, cost-effective and economical to deliver, as the case may be, on a commercial scale. We may not achieve any of these objectives. Our operating expenses are unpredictable, which may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. As a result of our limited operating history, because of the emerging nature of the markets in which we will compete and the lack of implementation of our repositioned business in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors, our financial data is of limited value in planning future operating expenses. We are currently a development stage enterprise and our historical financial performance is solely based upon basic start-up costs and is not reflective in any way of the financial requirements of our repositioned business in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors. To the extent our operating expenses precede or are not rapidly followed by increased revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our expense levels will be based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues. The size and extent of our revenues, if any, are wholly dependent upon the choices and demand of individuals for our products and services, which are difficult to forecast accurately. We may be unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Further, business development and marketing expenses may increase significantly as we expand our operations. Youchange has received a “going concern” opinion from its independent registered public accounting firm that expresses uncertainty regarding its ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s opinion contains an explanatory paragraph that expresses uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern due to our development stage nature and lack of revenues. We cannot be certain that our business plans will be successful or what actions may become necessary to preserve our business. Any inability to raise capital could cause our business to fail. 10 Our limited operating history makes our future operating results unpredictable rendering it difficult to assess the health of our business or its likelihood of success. The inability to assess these factors could result in a total loss of an investor's investment in youchange. In the case of an established company in an ongoing market, investors may look to past performance and financial condition to get an indication of the health of the company or its likelihood of success. Our short history, development stage nature and the evolving nature of the markets in which we plan to focus make it difficult to forecast our revenues, if any, and operating results accurately. We expect this unpredictability to continue into the future. Youchange could experience operating losses or even a total loss of our business which, as a result of the foregoing factors, would be difficult to anticipate and could thus cause a total loss of capital invested in youchange. Risks Related to our Business If our plan is not successful or management is not effective, the value of our common stock may decline. As a corporate entity, we have had nominal operations since inception and have generated minimal revenue to date. As a result, we are a development stage company with a limited operating history that makes it impossible to reliably predict future growth and operating results. Our business and prospects for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise surplus, obsolete electronic and end-of-life devices must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development. In particular, we have not demonstrated that we can: · build or acquire the infrastructure necessary to implement the operational processes for the business in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise obsolete electronic devices; · secure electronic refurbishment centers and recycling facilities necessary for our planned business operations; · obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for recycling electronic products and devices determined to be at the end of their useful life; · educate consumers about our programs and services in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors and effectively tap consumers’ behavior and appeal to consumers to utilize our services and facilities for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise obsolete electronic devices; · establish many of the business functions necessary to operate, including sales, marketing, administrative and financial functions, and establish appropriate financial controls; or · respond effectively to competitive pressures and alternative options for consumers to dispose of or discard otherwise obsolete electronic devices. We cannot make any assurances that we will be successful in meeting these challenges and addressing these risks and uncertainties. If we are unable to do so, our business will not be successful. Our lack of commercial marketing, sales and distribution may prevent us from successfully commercializing our services, which would adversely affect our level of future revenues, if any. Our business plan to enter the GreenTech and eWaste sectors for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise obsolete electronic devices is untested and unproven. We have extremely limited experience in marketing and sales in the GreenTech and eWaste sectors including services for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise obsolete electronic devices to date. We may not successfully arrange for the establishment of electronic refurbishment centers and recycling facilities and this could prevent us from commercializing our services or limit our profitability from any such proposed services. 11 The consumer marketplace may not accept and utilize our services, the effect of which would prevent us from successfully commercializing any proposed services and adversely affect our level of future revenue, if any. Our ability to market and commercialize our services for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise obsolete electronic devices depends on the acceptance of such services by consumers. We have a consumer rewards based program planned but will also need to develop commercialization initiatives designed to increase awareness about us and our services to consumers of electronic devices in locations where our refurbishment centers and recycling facilities will be located. Currently, we have not developed any such initiatives. Without success in these areas, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any proposed products or generate more than minimal revenues. Product liability exposure on refurbished electronic devices may expose us to significant liability or costs which would adversely impact our future operating results and divert funds from the operation of our business. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and other claims and lawsuits in the event that the recycle and reCommerce of refurbished electronic devices is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. We may not be able to avoid significant liability exposure. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain product liability insurance at acceptable costs or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our services. A product liability claim could hurt our financial performance. Even if we avoid liability exposure, significant costs could be incurred that could hurt our financial performance. We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary processes, which would allow competitors to take advantage of our concept development efforts, the effect of which could adversely affect any competitive advantage we may have. We have not sought any patent or other intellectual property protection of our business plan process for the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise obsolete electronic devices. Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain such patent protection and other intellectual property protection for our business processes, preserve our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive processes and services. If we fail to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We protect this information with reasonable security measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate collaborators. It is possible that these individuals will breach these agreements and that any remedies for a breach will be insufficient to allow us to recover our costs. Furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Our proprietary technology may not be enforceable and the proprietary technology of others may prevent us from commercializing services, which would adversely affect our level of future revenues, if any. Although we believe our proprietary technology may have some protection, the failure to obtain meaningful patent protection on our business processes may greatly diminish the value of our potential services and business processes. No assurances can be made that any patent protection of our business processes is achievable. We also rely upon non-patented trade secrets and know how, and others may independently develop substantially equivalent trade secrets or know how. We also rely on protecting our proprietary technology in part through confidentiality agreements with our current and former corporate collaborators, employees, consultants and certain contractors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or to protect trade secrets. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management efforts regardless of the results of the litigation. An adverse result in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed or require us to cease using certain technologies. 12 Our planned business plan could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from offering our services. Because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent application is published or the patent is issued, applications may have been filed which relate to services similar to those offered by us. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. If our potential products violate third-party proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that we would be able to arrange licensing agreements or other satisfactory resolutions on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any claims made against us relating to the infringement of third-party propriety rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and injunctions preventing us from providing services. Such claims could severely harm our financial condition and ability to compete. In addition, if another party claims the same subject matter or subject matter overlapping with the subject matter that we have claimed in a United States patent application or patent, we may decide or be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO in order to determine the priority of invention. Loss of such an interference proceeding would deprive us of patent protection sought or previously obtained and could prevent us from commercializing our products. Participation in such proceedings could result in substantial costs, whether or not the eventual outcome is favorable. These additional costs could adversely affect our financial results. Failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could expose us to significant liability or costs which would adversely impact our operating results and divert funds from the operation of our business which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations related to the collection, refurbishment (to factory condition) and reCommerce of otherwise obsolete electronic devices as well as the recycling of electronic products and devices determined to be at the end of their useful life. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and some waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials will comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an incident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. Current or future environmental laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on our operations, business and assets. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and the loss of a key executive could severely impact our operations. The execution of our present business plan depends on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Rassás, Chief Financial Officer, Richard A. Papworth, our Chief Operating Officer of Youchange, Inc., Mary Juetten and our Chief Technology Officer of Youchange, Inc., Naser Ahmad. We currently do not maintain key-man insurance policies on the lives of these individuals and have not entered into employment agreements with any of our executive officers. We believe the loss of any of their service would be detrimental to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders control our business and may make decisions that are not in the best interests of the non-principal shareholders. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders, and their affiliates, in the aggregate, own a substantial portion of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. As a result, such persons, acting together, have the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to other shareholders. 13 Our current business plan contemplates future growth levels that may not be obtainable or sustainable with our current resources. We anticipate that the execution of youchange’s business plan will result in a rapid expansion of our operations, which may place a significant strain on youchange’s management, financial and other resources. Youchange’s ability to manage the challanges associated with the expansion of our business operations after the reverse merger will depend, among other things, on our ability to monitor operations, control costs, maintain effective quality control, secure necessary marketing arrangements, expand internal management, technical information and accounting systems and attract, assimilate and retain qualified management and other personnel. If we fail to effectively manage these issues, we may not be profitable in the near future, or ever. Future acquisitions and strategic relationships, if any may be unsuccessful if we are unable to complete such acquisitions and integrate the acquired business or develop such strategic relationships, which subjects us to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Part of our strategy to expand our business and execute our business plan involves the possible acquisition of, or development of strategic relationships with, recyclers and refurbishment centers. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate future acquisition, if any, we may not realize the expected benefits from such acquisition, including any expected benefits from the proposed integration of the acquired operation into our current business model. If we are unable to develop future strategic relationships, we would not realize any expected benefits from such strategic relationships. Risks Related to our Common Stock Because we will likely issue additional shares of our common stock, or common stock equivalents, investment in our Company could be subject to substantial dilution. Investors’ interests in our Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share when we issue additional shares. As of August 31, 2011, we had 38,787,564 common shares outstanding. We are authorized to issue up to 60,000,000 common shares. We anticipate that all or at least some of our future funding, if any, will be in the form of equity financing from the sale of our common stock. If we do sell more common stock, investors’ investment in our company will likely be diluted. Dilution is the difference between what you pay for your stock and the net tangible book value per share immediately after the additional shares are sold by us. If dilution occurs, any investment in our common stock could seriously decline in value. The sale of our stock under convertible notes could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the future decline of our stock price. In many circumstances, the provision of financing based on the distribution of equity for companies that are traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board has the potential to cause a significant downward pressure on the price of common stock. This is especially the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market’s ability to take up the increased stock or if we have not performed in such a manner to show that the equity funds raised will be used to grow our business. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Regardless of our activities, the opportunity exists for short sellers and others to contribute to the future decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our common stock, the price decline that would result from this activity will cause the share price to decline more, which may cause other shareholders of the stock to sell their shares, thereby contributing to sales of common stock in the market. If there are many more shares of our common stock on the market for sale than the market will absorb, the price of our common shares will likely decline. 14 Trading in our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board is limited and sporadic, making it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares or liquidate their investments. Our common stock is currently listed for public trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control. The stock market has generally experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies with no current business operation. There can be no assurance that trading prices and price earnings ratios previously experienced by our common stock will be matched or maintained. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs for us and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Our By-laws contain provisions indemnifying our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by them. Our By-laws contain provisions with respect to the indemnification of our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment, actually and reasonably incurred by him, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment in a civil, criminal or administrative action or proceeding to which he is made a party by reason of his being or having been one of our directors or officers. Our By-laws do not contain anti-takeover provisions which could result in a change of our management and directors if there is a take-over of our company. We do not currently have a shareholder rights plan or any anti-takeover provisions in our By-laws. Without any anti-takeover provisions, there is no deterrent for a take-over of our company, which may result in a change in our management and directors. This could result in a disruption to the activities of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not intend to pay dividends on any investment in the shares of stock of our company and any gain on an investment in our company will need to come through an increase in our stock’s price, which may never happen. We have never paid any cash dividends and currently do not intend to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. To the extent that we require additional funding currently not provided for in our financing plan, our funding sources may prohibit the payment of a dividend. Because we do not intend to declare dividends, any gain on an investment in our company will need to come through an increase in the stock’s price. This may never happen and investors may lose all of their investment in our company. Because our securities are subject to penny stock rules, you may have difficulty reselling your shares. Our shares as penny stocks, are covered by Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell our company's securities including the delivery of a standardized disclosure document; disclosure and confirmation of quotation prices; disclosure of compensation the broker/dealer receives; and, furnishing monthly account statements. These rules apply to companies whose shares are not traded on a national stock exchange or on the Nasdaq system, trade at less than $5.00 per share, or who do not meet certain other financial requirements specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These rules require brokers who sell "penny stocks" to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" to complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors, and provide investors with certain information concerning the risks of trading in such penny stocks. These rules may discourage or restrict the ability of brokers to sell our shares of common stock and may affect the secondary market for our shares of common stock. These rules could also hamper our ability to raise funds in the primary market for our shares of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 