Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business and Properties We face numerous risks associated with the real estate industry that could adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. As a real estate company, we are subject to various changes in real estate conditions, and any negative trends in such real estate conditions may adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. These conditions include: • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, which may be negatively impacted by concerns about inflation, deflation, government deficits, high unemployment rates, decreased consumer confidence and liquidity concerns, particularly in markets in which we have a high concentration of properties; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • the inability of residents and tenants to pay rent; • the existence and quality of the competition, such as the attractiveness of our properties as compared to our competitors' properties based on considerations such as convenience of location, rental rates, amenities and safety record; • increased operating costs, including increased real property taxes, maintenance, insurance and utilities costs; • weather conditions that may increase or decrease energy costs and other weather-related expenses; • oversupply of apartments, commercial space or single-family housing or a reduction in demand for real estate in the markets in which our properties are located; • a favorable interest rate environment that may result in a significant number of potential residents of our apartment communities deciding to purchase homes instead of renting; • changes in, or increased costs of compliance with, laws and/or governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment and taxes; • rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs; and • changing trends in the demand by consumers for merchandise offered by retailers conducting business at our retail properties. Moreover, other factors may adversely affect our results of operations, including potential liability under environmental and other laws and other unforeseen events, many of which are discussed elsewhere in the following risk factors. Any or all of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. Our current portfolio consists of interests in fourteen apartment communities located primarily in markets in the Southeastern United States. Any adverse developments in local economic conditions or the demand for apartment units in these markets may negatively impact our results of operations. Our current portfolio of properties consists primarily of apartment communities geographically concentrated in the Southeastern United States, and our portfolio going forward may consist primarily of the same. For the year ended December 31, 2015, properties in Florida, Michigan, Illinois, Texas, Virginia and North Carolina comprised 43%, 17%, 12%, 11%, 10% and 7%, respectively, of our total rental revenue, excluding North Park Towers which was sold in October 2015. As such, we are currently susceptible to local economic conditions and the supply of and demand for apartment units in these markets. If there is a downturn in the economy or an oversupply of or decrease in demand for apartment units in these markets, our business could be materially adversely affected to a greater extent than if we owned a real estate portfolio that was more diversified in terms of both geography and industry focus. Our Manager may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable investment opportunities. Our investment strategy requires us, through our Manager, to identify suitable investment opportunities compatible with our investment criteria. Our Manager may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities that meet our criteria or in consummating investments, including those identified as part of our investment pipeline, on satisfactory terms or at all. Our ability to make investments on favorable terms may be constrained by several factors including, but not limited to, competition from other investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds, which may significantly increase investment costs; and/or the inability to finance an investment on favorable terms or at all. The failure to identify or consummate investments on satisfactory terms, or at all, may impede our growth and negatively affect our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 10 Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect our results of operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or to realize appreciation in the value of our properties. Our operating results may be adversely affected by market and economic challenges, which may negatively affect our returns and profitability and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders or to realize appreciation in the value of our properties. These market and economic challenges include, but are not limited to, the following: • any future downturn in the U.S. economy and the related reduction in spending, reduced home prices and high unemployment could result in tenant defaults under leases, vacancies at our apartment communities and concessions or reduced rental rates under new leases due to reduced demand; • the rate of household formation or population growth in our target markets or a continued or exacerbated economic slow-down experienced by the local economies where our properties are located or by the real estate industry generally may result in changes in supply of or demand for apartment units in our target markets; and • the failure of the real estate market to attract the same level of capital investment in the future that it attracts at the time of our purchases or a reduction in the number of companies seeking to acquire properties may result in the value of our investments not appreciating or decreasing significantly below the amount we pay for these investments. The length and severity of any economic slow-down or downturn cannot be predicted. Our operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and/or our ability to realize appreciation in the value of our properties could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that an economic slow-down or downturn is prolonged or becomes severe. Our revenues are significantly influenced by demand for apartment properties generally, and a decrease in such demand will likely have a greater adverse effect on our revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. Our current portfolio is focused predominately on apartment properties, and we expect that our portfolio going forward will focus predominately on the same. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry, and a decrease in the demand for apartment properties would likely have a greater adverse effect on our rental revenues than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. Resident demand at apartment properties was adversely affected by the recent U.S. recession, including the reduction in spending, reduced home prices and high unemployment, together with the price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the debt and equity markets, as well as the rate of household formation or population growth in our markets, changes in interest rates or changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing apartment properties in an area. If the economic recovery slows or stalls, these conditions could persist and we could experience downward pressure on occupancy and market rents at our apartment properties, which could cause a decrease in our rental revenue. Any such decrease could impair our ability to satisfy our substantial debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. The properties in our investment pipeline are subject to contingencies that could delay or prevent acquisition or investment in those properties. At any given time, we are generally in discussions regarding a number of apartment properties for acquisition or investment, which we refer to as our investment pipeline. However, we may not have completed our diligence process on these properties or development projects or have definitive investment or purchase and sale agreements, as applicable, and several other conditions may be required to be met in order for us to complete these acquisitions or developments, including approval by our investment committee or board of directors. If we are planning to use proceeds of an offering of our securities to fund these acquisitions or investments and are unable to complete the acquisition of the interests or investment in any of these properties or experience significant delays in executing any such acquisition or investment, we will have issued securities in an offering without realizing a corresponding current or future increase in earnings and cash flow from acquiring those interests or developing those properties, and may incur expenses in connection with our attempts in consummating such acquisition or investment, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent the uses of proceeds from an offering are designated for the acquisition of or investment in these properties, we will have no specific designated use for the net proceeds from the offering allocated to the purchase or development and investors will be unable to evaluate in advance the manner in which we will invest, or the economic merits of the properties we may ultimately acquire or develop with such proceeds. Our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenues decrease, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Costs associated with our business, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance premiums and maintenance costs, are relatively inflexible and generally do not decrease, and may increase, when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, a tenant fails to pay rent or other circumstances cause a reduction in property revenues. As a result, if revenues drop, we may not be able to reduce our expenses accordingly, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 11 We compete with numerous other parties or entities for real estate assets and tenants and may not compete successfully. We compete with numerous other persons or entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do. Some of these investors may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Our competitors may be willing to offer space at rates below our rates, causing us to lose existing or potential tenants. Competition from other apartment properties for tenants could reduce our profitability and the return on your investment. The apartment property industry is highly competitive. Our competitors may be willing to offer space at rates below our rates, causing us to lose existing or potential tenants. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and revenues at our apartment properties, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to face competition for tenants from many sources. We will face competition from other apartment communities both in the immediate vicinity and in the larger geographic market where our apartment communities will be located. If overbuilding of apartment properties occurs at our properties it will increase the number of apartment units available and may decrease occupancy and apartment rental rates at our properties. Increased competition and increased affordability of single-family homes could limit our ability to retain residents, lease apartment units or increase or maintain rents. Any apartment properties we may acquire will most likely compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including single-family homes, as well as owner-occupied single and multifamily homes available to rent. Competitive housing in a particular area and the increasing affordability of owner occupied single and multifamily homes available to rent or buy caused by declining mortgage interest rates and government programs to promote home ownership could adversely affect our ability to retain our residents, lease apartment units and increase or maintain rental rates. Increased construction of similar properties that compete with our properties in any particular location could adversely affect the operating results of our properties and our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may acquire properties in locations which experience increases in construction of properties that compete with our properties. This increased competition and construction could: • make it more difficult for us to find tenants to lease units in our apartment properties; • force us to lower our rental prices in order to lease units in our apartment properties; and/or • substantially reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our investments will be dependent on tenants for revenue, and lease terminations could reduce our revenues from rents, resulting in the decline in the value of your investment. The underlying value of our properties and the ability to make distributions to you depend upon the ability of the tenants of our properties to generate enough income to pay their rents in a timely manner, and the success of our investments depends upon the occupancy levels, rental income and operating expenses of our properties and our company. Tenants’ inability to timely pay their rents may be impacted by employment and other constraints on their personal finances, including debts, purchases and other factors. These and other changes beyond our control may adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make lease payments. In the event of a tenant default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property. We may be unable to re-lease the property for the rent previously received. We may be unable to sell a property with low occupancy without incurring a loss. These events and others could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions we make to stockholders and may also cause the value of your investment to decline. Our operating results and distributable cash flow depend on our ability to generate revenue from leasing our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Our operating results depend, in large part, on revenues derived from leasing space in our properties. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants, and to the extent our tenants default on their leases or fail to make rental payments we may suffer a decrease in our revenue. In addition, if a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and we may incur substantial legal costs. We are also subject to the risk that we will not be able to lease space in our value-added or opportunistic properties or that, upon the expiration of leases for space located in our properties, leases may not be renewed, the space may not be re-leased or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in decreased distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. Further, costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenue. These events would cause a significant decrease in revenues and could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders. 12 Short-term apartment leases expose us to the effects of declining market rent, which could adversely impact our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders. We expect that substantially all of our apartment leases will be for a term of one year or less. Because these leases generally permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues may be impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Costs incurred in complying with governmental laws and regulations may reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions. Our company and the properties we own and expect to own are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Federal laws such as the National Environmental Policy Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Federal Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and the Hazard Communication Act and their resolutions and corresponding state and local counterparts govern such matters as wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. The properties we acquire will be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 which generally requires that certain types of buildings and services be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. Additionally, we must comply with the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, which requires that apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1991 be accessible to handicapped residents and visitors. These laws may require us to make modifications to our properties. Some of these laws and regulations impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were illegal. Compliance with these laws and any new or more stringent laws or regulations may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. In addition, there are various federal, state and local fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Our properties may be affected by our tenants’ activities or actions, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties. The presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may make it difficult or impossible to sell or rent such property. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions and may reduce the value of your investment. A change in the United States government policy with regard to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could impact our financial condition. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are a major source of financing for the apartment real estate sector. We and other apartment companies in the apartment real estate sector depend frequently on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to finance growth by purchasing or guarantying apartment loans. In February 2011, the Obama Administration released a report to Congress which included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In June 2013, a bipartisan group of senators proposed an overhaul of the housing finance system which would wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac within five years; in August 2013, President Obama announced his support for this legislation. We do not know when or if Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac will restrict their support of lending to the apartment real estate industry or to us in particular. A final decision by the government to eliminate Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or reduce their acquisitions or guarantees of apartment real estate mortgage loans, may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability and our ability to refinance our existing mortgage obligations as they come due and obtain additional long-term financing for the acquisition of additional apartment communities on favorable terms or at all. If we are not able to cost-effectively maximize the life of our properties, we may incur greater than anticipated capital expenditure costs, which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. While the majority of our properties have undergone substantial renovations by prior owners since they were constructed, older properties may carry certain risks including unanticipated repair costs associated with older properties, increased maintenance costs as older properties continue to age, and cost overruns due to the need for special materials and/or fixtures specific to older properties. Although we take a proactive approach to property preservation, utilizing a preventative maintenance plan, and selective improvements that mitigate the cost impact of maintaining exterior building features and aging building components, if we are not able to cost-effectively maximize the life of our properties, we may incur greater than anticipated capital expenditure costs which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Any uninsured losses or high insurance premiums will reduce our net income and the amount of our cash distributions to stockholders. Our Manager will attempt to ensure adequate insurance is obtained to cover significant areas of risk to us as a company and to our properties. However, there are types of losses at the property level, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses. If any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully insured, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any working capital reserve or other reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in lower distributions to stockholders. 13 We may have difficulty selling real estate investments, and our ability to distribute all or a portion of the net proceeds from such sale to our stockholders may be limited. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. We will have a limited ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. We will also have a limited ability to sell assets in order to fund working capital and similar capital needs. When we sell any of our properties, we may not realize a gain on such sale. We may not elect to distribute any proceeds from the sale of properties to our stockholders; for example, we may use such proceeds to: •purchase additional properties; • fund capital commitments to our joint ventures; • repay debt, if any; • buy out interests of any co-venturers or other partners in any joint venture in which we are a party; • create working capital reserves; and/or • make repairs, maintenance, tenant improvements or other capital improvements or expenditures to our remaining properties. Our ability to sell our properties may also be limited by our need to avoid a 100% penalty tax that is imposed on gain recognized by a REIT from the sale of property characterized as dealer property. In order to ensure that we avoid such characterization, we may be required to hold our properties for the production of rental income for a minimum period of time, generally two years, and comply with certain other requirements in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). We may be unable to redevelop existing properties successfully and our investments in the development of new properties will be subjected to development risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations due to unexpected costs, delays and other contingencies. As part of our operating strategy, we intend to selectively expand and/or redevelop existing properties as market conditions warrant, as well as invest in development of new properties through our Invest-to-Own strategy. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investments in general as described above, there are significant risks associated with development activities including the following: • we or the developers that we finance may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs and/or lower than expected leases; • developers may incur development costs for a property that exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other costs, changes in development plans or unforeseen environmental conditions, which could make completion of the property more costly or uneconomical; • land, insurance and construction costs may be higher than expected in our markets; therefore, we may be unable to attract rents that compensate for these increases in costs; • we may abandon redevelopment or Invest-to-Own development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities; • rental rates and occupancy levels may be lower and operating and/or capital cost may be higher than anticipated; • changes in applicable zoning and land use laws may require us to abandon projects prior to their completion, resulting in the loss of development costs incurred up to the time of abandonment; and • possible delays in completion because of construction delays, delays in the receipt of zoning, occupancy and other approvals, or other factors outside of our control. In addition, if a project is delayed, certain residents and tenants may have the right to terminate their leases. Any one or more of these risks may cause us or the projects in which we invest to incur unexpected development costs, which would negatively affect our results of operations. 14 As part of otherwise attractive portfolios of properties, we may acquire some properties with existing lock-out provisions, which may prohibit or inhibit us from selling a property for an indeterminate period of time, or may require us to maintain specified debt levels for a period of years on some properties. Loan provisions could materially restrict us from selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing properties. These provisions would affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and thus affect cash available for distributions to you. Loan provisions may prohibit us from reducing the outstanding indebtedness with respect to properties, refinancing such indebtedness on a non-recourse basis at maturity, or increasing the amount of indebtedness with respect to such properties. Loan provisions could impair our ability to take actions that would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of our stock, relative to the value that would result if the loan provisions did not exist. In particular, loan provisions could preclude us from participating in major transactions that could result in a disposition of our assets or a change in control even though that disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our investments could be adversely affected if a member of our Bluerock Partner Network performs poorly at one of our projects, which could adversely affect returns to our stockholders. In general, we expect to rely on our Partner Network for the day-to-day management and development of our real estate investments. Members of our Partner Network are not fiduciaries to us, and generally will have limited capital invested in a project, if any. One or more members of our Partner Network may perform poorly in managing one of our project investments for a variety of reasons, including failure to properly adhere to budgets or properly consummate the property business plan. A member of our Partner Network may also underperform for strategic reasons related to projects or assets that the Partner is involved in with a Bluerock affiliate but not our company. If a member of our Partner Network does not perform well at one of our projects, we may not be able to ameliorate the adverse effects of poor performance by terminating the Partner and finding a replacement partner to manage our projects in a timely manner. In such an instance, the returns to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Actions of our joint venture partners could subject us to liabilities in excess of those contemplated or prevent us from taking actions which are in the best interests of our stockholders, which could result in lower investment returns to our stockholders. We have entered into, and in the future intend to enter into, joint ventures with affiliates and other third parties, including our Partner Network, to acquire or improve properties. We may also purchase properties in partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present when acquiring real estate directly, including, for example: •joint venturers may share certain approval rights over major decisions; • that such co-venturer, co-owner or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are or which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in the joint venture or the timing of termination or liquidation of the joint venture; • the possibility that our co-venturer, co-owner or partner in an investment might become insolvent or bankrupt; • the possibility that we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by our co-venturer, co-owner or partner; • that such co-venturer, co-owner or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT; • disputes between us and our joint venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable joint venture to additional risk; or • under certain joint venture arrangements, neither venture partner may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could be reached which might have a negative influence on the joint venture. These events might subject us to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce your investment returns. If we have a right of first refusal or buy/sell right to buy out a co-venturer, co-owner or partner, we may be unable to finance such a buy-out if it becomes exercisable or we may be required to purchase such interest at a time when it would not otherwise be in our best interest to do so. If our interest is subject to a buy/sell right, we may not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to elect to purchase an interest of a co-venturer subject to the buy/sell right, in which case we may be forced to sell our interest as the result of the exercise of such right when we would otherwise prefer to keep our interest. Finally, we may not be able to sell our interest in a joint venture if we desire to exit the venture. 15 Your investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act; if we are subject to registration under the Investment Company Act, we will not be able to continue our business. Neither we, nor our operating partnership, nor any of our subsidiaries intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We expect that our operating partnership’s and subsidiaries’ investments in real estate will represent the substantial majority of our total asset mix, which would not subject us to the Investment Company Act. In order to maintain an exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we intend to engage, through our operating partnership and our wholly and majority owned subsidiaries, primarily in the business of buying real estate, and qualifying real estate investments must be made within a year after cash is received by us. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of cash proceeds in properties within one year of receipt, we may avoid being required to register as an investment company by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and possibly lower your returns. We expect that most of our assets will be held through wholly owned or majority owned subsidiaries of our operating partnership. We expect that most of these subsidiaries will be outside the definition of investment company under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act as they are generally expected to hold at least 60% of their assets in real property or in entities that they manage or co-manage that own real property. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. Excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, are U.S. government securities and securities issued by majority owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company set forth in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. We believe that we, our operating partnership and most of the subsidiaries of our operating partnership will not fall within either definition of investment company as we invest primarily in real property, through our wholly or majority owned subsidiaries, the majority of which we expect to have at least 60% of their assets in real property or in entities that they manage or co-manage that own real property. As these subsidiaries would be investing either solely or primarily in real property, they would be outside of the definition of “investment company” under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act. We are organized as a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through the operating partnership, which in turn is a holding company conducting its business through its subsidiaries. Both we and our operating partnership intend to conduct our operations so that they comply with the 40% test. We will monitor our holdings to ensure continuing and ongoing compliance with this test. In addition, we believe that neither we nor the operating partnership will be considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act because neither we nor the operating partnership will engage primarily or hold itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Rather, through the operating partnership’s wholly-owned or majority owned subsidiaries, we and the operating partnership will be primarily engaged in the non-investment company businesses of these subsidiaries. In the event that the value of investment securities held by the subsidiaries of our operating partnership were to exceed 40%, we expect our subsidiaries to be able to rely on the exclusion from the definition of “investment company” provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. Section 3(c)(5)(C), as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires each of our subsidiaries relying on this exception to invest at least 55% of its portfolio in “mortgage and other liens on and interests in real estate,” which we refer to as “qualifying real estate assets” and maintain at least 70% to 90% of its assets in qualifying real estate assets or other real estate-related assets. The remaining 20% of the portfolio can consist of miscellaneous assets. What we buy and sell is therefore limited to these criteria. How we determine to classify our assets for purposes of the Investment Company Act will be based in large measure upon no-action letters issued by the SEC staff in the past and other SEC interpretive guidance. These no-action positions were issued in accordance with factual situations that may be substantially different from the factual situations we may face, and a number of these no-action positions were issued more than ten years ago. Pursuant to this guidance, and depending on the characteristics of the specific investments, certain joint venture investments may not constitute qualifying real estate assets and therefore investments in these types of assets may be limited. No assurance can be given that the SEC will concur with our classification of our assets. Future revisions to the Investment Company Act or further guidance from the SEC may cause us to lose our exclusion from registration or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our investment strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. In the event that we, or our operating partnership, were to acquire assets that could make either entity fall within the definition of investment company under Section 3(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act, we believe that we would still qualify for an exclusion from registration pursuant to Section 3(c)(6). Section 3(c)(6) excludes from the definition of investment company any company primarily engaged, directly or through majority owned subsidiaries, in one or more of certain specified businesses. These specified businesses include the real estate business described in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. It also excludes from the definition of investment company any company primarily engaged, directly or through majority owned subsidiaries, in one or more of such specified businesses from which at least 25% of such company’s gross income during its last fiscal year is derived, together with any additional business or businesses other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities. Although the SEC staff has issued little interpretive guidance with respect to Section 3(c)(6), we believe that we and our operating partnership may rely on Section 3(c)(6) if 55% of the assets of our operating partnership consist of, and at least 55% of the income of our operating partnership is derived from, qualifying real estate assets owned by wholly owned or majority owned subsidiaries of our operating partnership. 16 To ensure that neither we, nor our operating partnership nor subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company, each entity may be unable to sell assets they would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets they would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we, our operating company or our subsidiaries may be required to acquire additional income or loss-generating assets that we might not otherwise acquire or forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire. Although we, our operating partnership and our subsidiaries intend to monitor our respective portfolios periodically and prior to each acquisition or disposition, any of these entities may not be able to maintain an exclusion from registration as an investment company. If we, our operating partnership or our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company but fail to do so, the unregistered entity would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against such entity. In addition, the contracts of such entity would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of the entity and liquidate its business. We have experienced losses in the past, and we may experience similar losses in the future. From inception of our company through December 31, 2015, we had a cumulative net loss of $9.5 million. Our losses can be attributed, in part, to the initial start-up costs and initially high corporate general and administrative expenses relative to the size of our portfolio. In addition, acquisition costs and depreciation and amortization expenses substantially reduced our income. We cannot assure you that, in the future, we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our assets. We previously generated negative operating cash flow, and our corporate general and administrative expenses were high relative to the size of our current portfolio. In prior years, our corporate general and administrative expenses exceeded the cash flow received from our investments in real estate joint ventures. The primary reason for the previous negative operating cash flow was the amount of our corporate general and administrative expenses relative to the size of the portfolio. Our corporate general and administrative expenses were $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, which reflected an increase of $1.4 million over the same period in 2014. During 2015 the size of our portfolio increased significantly and cash flow from our investments in real estate joint ventures increased to cover our general and administrative expenses. There can be no assurance that current period operating cash flow will continue to exceed our general and administrative expenses. If cash flow received from our investments decreases and our corporate general and administrative expenses become high in relation to the size of our portfolio, this would reduce the amount of funds available for us to invest in properties or other investments. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our corporate general and administrative costs may remain high relative to the size of our portfolio, which will adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are not successful in investing the net proceeds of an offering in the manner set forth under “Use of Proceeds” in any applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement and continuing to raise capital and invest on an accretive basis, our corporate general and administrative costs will likely remain high relative to the size of our portfolio. If that occurs, it would adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have very limited sources of capital other than the proceeds of offerings of our securities to meet our primary liquidity requirements. We have very limited sources of capital other than cash from property operations and the net proceeds of offerings of our securities to meet our primary liquidity requirements. As a result, we may not be able to pay our liabilities and obligations when they come due other than with the net proceeds of an offering, which may limit our ability to fully consummate our business plan and diversify our portfolio. In the past, we have relied on borrowing from affiliates to help finance our business activities. However, there are no assurances that we will be able to continue to borrow from affiliates or extend the maturity date of any loans that may be outstanding and due to affiliates. You will have limited control over changes in our policies and day-to-day operations, which limited control increases the uncertainty and risks you face as a stockholder. In addition, our board of directors may change our major operational policies without your approval. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. See “Important Provisions of Maryland Corporate Law and Our Charter and Bylaws” in any applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement. Our Manager is responsible for the day-to-day operations of our company and the selection and management of investments and has broad discretion over the use of proceeds from offerings of our securities. Accordingly, you should not purchase our securities unless you are willing to entrust all aspects of the day-to-day management and the selection and management of investments to our Manager, who will manage our company in accordance with the Management Agreement. In addition, our Manager may retain independent contractors to provide various services for our company, and you should note that such contractors will have no fiduciary duty to you or the other stockholders and may not perform as expected or desired. In addition, while any applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement outlines our investment policies and generally describes our target portfolio, our board of directors or our Manager may make adjustments to these policies based on, among other things, prevailing real estate market conditions and the availability of attractive investment opportunities. While we have no current intention of changing our investment policies, we will not forego an attractive investment because it does not fit within our targeted asset class or portfolio composition. We may use the proceeds of an offering to purchase or invest in any type of real estate which we determine is in the best interest of our stockholders. As such, our actual portfolio composition may vary substantially from the target portfolio described in the applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement. 17 If we internalize our management functions, we could incur other significant costs associated with being self-managed. At any time, our board of directors may, but is not obligated to, pursue the internalization of the functions performed for us by our Manager through the acquisition of our Manager or similar transaction through which we would bring onboard our Manager’s management team. The method by which we could internalize these functions could take many forms. While we believe that there are substantial benefits to internalization of management functions at the appropriate time, there is no assurance that internalization will be beneficial to us and our stockholders, and internalizing our management functions could reduce earnings per share and funds from operation per share. For example, we may not realize the perceived benefits or we may not be able to properly integrate a new staff of managers and employees or we may not be able to effectively replicate the services provided previously by our Manager or its affiliates. Internalization transactions involving the internalization of managers affiliated with entity sponsors have also, in some cases, been the subject of litigation. Even if these claims are without merit, we could be forced to spend significant amounts of money defending claims which would reduce the amount of funds available for us to invest in properties or other investments to pay distributions. All these factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Your rights as stockholders and our rights to recover claims against our officers, directors and Manager are limited. Under Maryland law, our charter, our bylaws and the terms of certain indemnification agreements with our directors, we may generally indemnify our officers, our directors, our Manager and their respective affiliates to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Maryland law permits us to indemnify our present and former directors and officers, among others, against judgments, penalties, fines, settlements and reasonable expenses actually incurred by them in connection with any proceeding to which they may be made or threatened to be made a party by reason of their service in those or other capacities unless it is established that: (1) the act or omission of the director or officer was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and (i) was committed in bad faith or (ii) was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty; (2) the director or officer actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services; or (3) in the case of any criminal proceeding, the director or officer had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors, officers, employees and agents, and our Manager and its affiliates, than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors, officers, employees and agents or our Manager in some cases. A limit on the percentage of our common stock a person may own may discourage a takeover or business combination, which could prevent our common stockholders from realizing a premium price for their common stock. Our charter restricts direct or indirect ownership by one person or entity to no more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or 9.8% in number of shares or value, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock unless exempted (prospectively or retroactively) by our board of directors. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that could result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our board of directors may amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock into other classes or series of stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. We have issued 2,875,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and are offering up to 150,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock in a continuous offering that are senior to our common stock with respect to priority of dividend payments and rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Our board of directors could also authorize the issuance of up to 246,975,000 additional shares of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price to holders of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Contribution Transactions and Other Related Party Transactions We may be subject to unknown liabilities in connection with the contribution transactions in our IPO which could result in unexpected liabilities and expenses. As part of the contribution transactions consummated in connection with the IPO, we (through our operating partnership) received certain assets or interests in certain assets subject to existing liabilities, which may include liabilities that are unknown to us. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to an offering (including those that had not been asserted or threatened prior to such offering), tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. Although we are not aware of any, our recourse with respect to any such liabilities may be limited. Depending upon the amount or nature of such liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our shares may be adversely affected. 18 We did not obtain new owner’s title insurance policies in connection with the acquisition of our real estate investments in the contribution transactions in our IPO. Each of the properties underlying the contributed real estate investments in our contribution transactions in our IPO is insured by a title insurance policy. We did not, however, obtain new owner’s title insurance policies in connection with the contribution transactions unless the existing mortgage loans remained in place upon completion of the acquisition, in which case we may have obtained new title policies or updated existing title policies if required by a lender. Although we are not aware of any, if there were a material title defect related to any of these properties that is not adequately covered by a title insurance policy, we could lose some or all of our capital invested in and our anticipated profits from such property. We did not obtain new Phase I environmental site assessments in connection with our contribution transactions, and the assessments our sellers obtained before acquisition of these properties did not provide assurance that we will not be exposed to environmental liabilities at our properties. We did not obtain new Phase I environmental site assessments with respect to all of the properties underlying our contributed real estate investments prior to the contribution transactions. No assurances can be given that any of the prior Phase I environmental site assessments previously obtained by Bluerock Special Opportunity + Income Fund, LLC (“Fund I”), and Bluerock Special Opportunity + Income Fund II, LLC, Bluerock Special Opportunity + Income Fund III, LLC and Bluerock Growth Fund, LLC (together, the “Bluerock Funds”), each of which are affiliates of our Manager, identify all environmental conditions impacting the properties because material environmental conditions may have developed since the Phase I environmental site assessments were conducted. The Phase I environmental site assessments are also of limited scope and do not include comprehensive asbestos, lead-based paint or lead in drinking water assessments. Therefore, the properties developed earlier than 1989 may contain such hazardous substances. Comprehensive mold and radon assessments also were not conducted and some of the initial properties were identified in areas with radon levels above action levels for residential buildings by the Environmental Protection Agency. We also cannot guarantee that a prior owner or tenant of a property or that an adjacent property owner has not created a material environmental condition that is unknown to us or that there are no other unknown material environmental conditions as to any one or more of the properties underlying our contributed real estate investments. There also exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may arise in the future. The realization of any or all of these risks may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of shares of our stock. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of the terms of certain agreements in connection with related party transactions because of conflicts of interest with certain of our officers and directors, and the terms of those agreements may be less favorable to us than they might otherwise be in an arm’s-length transaction. The agreements we enter into in connection with related party transactions are expected to contain limited representations and warranties and have limited express indemnification rights in the event of a breach of those agreements. Furthermore, Mr. Kamfar, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, currently serves as an officer of Bluerock Real Estate, LLC, an affiliate of our Manager, or Bluerock, and Mr. Kachadurian, a director and our Manager’s Vice Chairman, is affiliated with Bluerock, and each will have a conflict with respect to any matters that require consideration by our board of directors that occur between us and Bluerock. Even if we have actionable rights, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements or under other agreements we may have with these parties, because of our desire to maintain positive relationships with these individuals. Our tax protection agreement requires our operating partnership to maintain certain debt levels that otherwise would not be required to operate our business. Under our tax protection agreement with BR-NPT Springing Entity, LLC (“NPT”), our operating partnership will provide NPT the opportunity to guarantee debt or enter into a deficit restoration obligation upon a future repayment, retirement, refinancing or other reduction (other than scheduled amortization) of currently outstanding debt prior to the sixth anniversary of the completion of our contribution transactions. If we fail to make such opportunity available, we will be required to deliver to NPT a cash payment intended to approximate the tax liability of certain members of NPT resulting from our failure to make such opportunity available and the tax liabilities incurred as a result of such tax protection payment. We agreed to these provisions in order to assist certain members of NPT in deferring the recognition of taxable gain as a result of and after our contribution transactions. These obligations may require us to maintain more or different indebtedness than we would otherwise require for our business. We estimate that the amount of indebtedness we are required to maintain for this purpose will not exceed $20 million. 19 Risks Related to our Management and Relationships with our Manager We are dependent on our Manager and its key personnel for our success. Currently, we are externally advised by our Manager and, pursuant to the Management Agreement, our Manager is not obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us, nor is its personnel obligated to dedicate any specific portion of their time to the management of our business. As a result, we cannot provide any assurances regarding the amount of time our Manager will dedicate to the management of our business. Moreover, each of our officers and non-independent directors is also an employee of our Manager or one of its affiliates, and has significant responsibilities for other investment vehicles currently managed by Bluerock affiliates, and may not always be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business. Consequently, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we otherwise might receive if we were internally managed. In addition, we offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our manager or that we will continue to have access to our Manager’s principals and professionals. The initial term of our Management Agreement with our Manager only extends until April 2, 2017 (the third anniversary of the closing of the IPO), with automatic one-year renewals thereafter, and may be terminated earlier under certain circumstances. If the Management Agreement is terminated or not renewed and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The inability of our Manager to retain or obtain key personnel could delay or hinder implementation of our investment strategies, which could impair our ability to make distributions and could reduce the value of your investment. Our Manager is obligated to supply us with substantially all of our senior management team, including our chief executive officer, president, chief accounting officer and chief operating officer. Subject to investment, leverage and other guidelines or policies adopted by our board of directors, our Manager has significant discretion regarding the implementation of our investment and operating policies and strategies. Accordingly, we believe that our success will depend significantly upon the experience, skill, resources, relationships and contacts of the senior officers and key personnel of our Manager and its affiliates. In particular, our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of Messrs. Kamfar, Kachadurian, Babb, Ruddy, Konig and MacDonald, all of whom are senior officers of our Manager. We do not have employment agreements with any of these key personnel and do not have key man life insurance on any of them. If any of Messrs. Kamfar, Kachadurian, Babb, Ruddy, Konig and MacDonald were to cease their affiliation with us or our Manager, our Manager may be unable to find suitable replacements, and our operating results could suffer. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our Manager’s ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, and our Manager may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of highly skilled personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, and the value of your investment may decline. Our Manager’s limited operating history makes it difficult for you to evaluate this investment. Our Manager has less than two years of operating history and may not be able to successfully operate our business or achieve our investment objectives. We may not be able to conduct our business as described in our plan of operation. Termination of our Management Agreement, even for poor performance, could be difficult and costly, including as a result of termination fees, and may cause us to be unable to execute our business plan. Termination of our Management Agreement without cause, even for poor performance, could be difficult and costly. We may terminate our Management Agreement without cause if at least two-thirds of our independent directors determine either (i) there has been unsatisfactory performance by our Manager that is materially detrimental to us or (ii) the base management and incentive fees payable by us to our Manager are above current market rates. We may generally terminate our Manager for “cause” (as defined in our Management Agreement); provided, that if we are terminating due to a “change of control” of our Manager (as defined in our Management Agreement), a majority of our independent directors must determine such change of control is materially detrimental to us prior to any termination. If we terminate the Management Agreement without cause or in connection with an internalization, or if the Manager terminates the Management Agreement because of a material breach thereof by us or as a result of a change of control of our company, we must pay our Manager a termination fee payable in cash or, in connection with an internalization, acquire our Manager at an equivalent price, which may include a contribution of the Manager’s assets in exchange for Operating Partnership (or “OP Units”) or other tax-efficient transaction. The termination fee, if any, will be equal to three times the sum of the base management fee and incentive fee earned, in each case, by our Manager during the 12-month period prior to such termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter. These provisions may substantially restrict our ability to terminate the Management Agreement without cause and would cause us to incur substantial costs in connection with such a termination. Furthermore, in the event that our Management Agreement is terminated, with or without cause, and we are unable to identify a suitable replacement to manage us, our ability to execute our business plan could be adversely affected. 20 Because we are dependent upon our Manager and its affiliates to conduct our operations, any adverse changes in the financial health of our Manager or its affiliates or our relationship with them could hinder our operating performance and the return on your investment. We are dependent on our Manager and its affiliates to manage our operations and acquire and manage our portfolio of real estate assets. Under the direction of our board of directors, and subject to our investment guidelines, our Manager makes all decisions with respect to the management of our company. Our Manager depends upon the fees and other compensation that it receives from us in connection with managing our company to conduct its operations. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of our Manager or its affiliates, or our relationship with our Manager, could hinder its ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments, which would adversely affect us and our stockholders. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for our Manager and will not approve each investment and financing decision made by our Manager unless required by our investment guidelines. Our Manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines established by our board of directors. Our board of directors will periodically review our investment guidelines and our portfolio of assets but will not, and will not be required to, review all of our proposed investments, except in limited circumstances as set forth in our investment policies, which are described under “Policies with Respect to Certain Activities — Our Investment Policies.” In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our Manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our Manager may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of directors. Our Manager has great latitude within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types and amounts of assets in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, or may otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our Manager and our senior management team have limited experience managing a REIT and limited experience managing a publicly traded REIT. The experience of our senior management team in managing a REIT is limited to the time since 2008, and that of our Manager is limited to the time since the completion of the IPO. Moreover, our Manager and most members of our senior management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded REIT. We cannot assure you that the past experience of our Manager and our senior management team will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a REIT or a publicly traded company, including the requirements to timely meet disclosure requirements of the SEC, and comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest The Management Agreement with our Manager was not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Our executive officers, including two of our five directors, are executives of Bluerock. Our Management Agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to our Manager, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the Management Agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with Bluerock and its affiliates. We may have conflicts of interest with our Manager and other affiliates, which could result in investment decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. There are numerous conflicts of interest between our interests and the interests of our Manager, Bluerock and their respective affiliates, including conflicts arising out of allocation of personnel to our activities, allocation of investment opportunities between us and investment vehicles affiliated with Bluerock, purchase or sale of apartment properties, including from or to Bluerock or its affiliates and fee arrangements with our Manager that might induce our Manager to make investment decisions that are not in our best interests. Examples of these potential conflicts of interest include: •Bluerock and the Bluerock Funds, which are managed by Bluerock and its affiliates, own a significant portion of our common stock on a fully diluted basis, which could give Bluerock the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval and allow Bluerock to exert significant influence over our company in a manner that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders; • Competition for the time and services of personnel that work for us and our affiliates; • Compensation payable by us to our Manager and its affiliates for their various services, which may not be on market terms and is payable, in some cases, whether or not our stockholders receive distributions; 21 • The possibility that our Manager, its officers and their respective affiliates will face conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, subject to the terms of our investment allocation agreement with our Manager and Bluerock, and that such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, thus potentially limiting our investment opportunities, impairing our ability to make distributions and adversely affecting the trading price of our stock; • The possibility that if we acquire properties from Bluerock or its affiliates, the price may be higher than we would pay if the transaction were the result of arm’s-length negotiations with a third party; • The possibility that our Manager will face conflicts of interest caused by its indirect ownership by Bluerock, some of whose officers are also our officers and two of whom are directors of ours, resulting in actions that may not be in the long-term best interests of our stockholders; • Our Manager has considerable discretion with respect to the terms and timing of our acquisition, disposition and leasing transactions, and the incentive fee payable by us to our Manager is determined based on AFFO, which may create an incentive for our Manager to make investments that are risky or more speculative than would otherwise be in our best interests; • The possibility that we may acquire or merge with our Manager, resulting in an internalization of our management functions; • The possibility that conflicts of interest may arise between NPT, as a holder of OP Units, and our stockholders with respect to a reduction of indebtedness of our operating partnership, which could have adverse tax consequences to certain members of NPT thereby making those transactions less desirable to NPT, which will continue to be managed by a Bluerock affiliate; • The possibility that the competing demands for the time of our Manager, its affiliates and our officers may result in them spending insufficient time on our business, which may result in our missing investment opportunities or having less efficient operations, which could reduce our profitability and result in lower distributions to you; and • As of December 31, 2015, all but five of our investments have been made through joint venture arrangements with affiliates of our Manager (in addition to unaffiliated third parties), which arrangements were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers, and which could result in a disproportionate benefit to affiliates of our Manager. Any of these and other conflicts of interest between us and our Manager could have a material adverse effect on the returns on our investments, our ability to make distributions to stockholders and the trading price of our stock. Certain current or future private investment funds managed by Bluerock or its affiliates may have the right to co-invest with us in Class A apartment properties in our target markets, which could adversely affect our ability to invest timely in our target assets, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Certain current or future private investment funds managed by Bluerock or its affiliates may have the right to co-invest with us in Class A apartment properties in our target markets under an investment allocation agreement, subject to us and each fund having capital available for investment and the determination by our Manager and the general partner of each of such funds, which is, or will be, an affiliate of Bluerock, that the proposed investment is suitable for us and such fund, respectively. Pursuant to the investment allocation agreement, the Bluerock-affiliated funds will have the right to co-invest with us under certain circumstances. Depending on the circumstances, we may co-invest in a particular asset with one or any combination of the Bluerock-affiliated funds. To the extent that one of the Bluerock-affiliated funds has significant available capital, the likelihood that we may co-invest in a particular asset with such fund could increase significantly. To the extent that we acquire assets with the Bluerock-affiliated funds, our ability to invest the net proceeds from an offering in revenue-generating assets in the near term may be hindered, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, because affiliates of Bluerock also manage the Bluerock-affiliated funds, and fees payable to such affiliates by the Bluerock-affiliated funds may be more advantageous than fees payable by us to our Manager, our interests in such investments may conflict with the interests of the Bluerock-affiliated funds, and our Manager or its affiliates may take actions that may not be most favorable to us, including in the event of a default or restructuring of assets subject to co-investment rights. In addition, because these funds are, and other co-investment funds managed by Bluerock and its affiliates in the future likely will be closed-end funds with finite lives, such funds are expected to dispose of substantially all of the assets in their respective portfolios prior to dissolution. As a result, prior to such dissolutions, we may need to sell our interests in the co-investment assets before we otherwise would in order to avoid a potential conflict. Our decision to sell such interests will depend, among other things, on our ability to sell the interests at favorable prices or at all. It is also possible that our Manager or its affiliates, who also manage such funds, may sell such co-investment assets at times or prices that are not in the best interests of us or our stockholders. In addition, to the extent that such funds dispose of co-investment assets that are qualifying assets, we may be required to purchase additional qualifying assets (subject to the availability of capital at favorable prices or at all) or sell non-qualifying assets at inopportune times or prices in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT and our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act. Even if our interests are not in conflict with those of funds with co-investment rights, we will not realize the full economic benefits of the investment. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our Manager’s ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our business strategy could be hindered materially, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 22 Bluerock and the Bluerock Funds’ ownership of a significant portion of the outstanding shares of our common stock on a fully diluted basis could give Bluerock the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval and otherwise allow Bluerock to exert significant influence over our company in a manner that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2015, Bluerock Funds will beneficially own approximately 5.9% of our outstanding Class A common stock on a fully diluted basis and Bluerock, along with our Manager, senior executives of our Manager, and our directors, along with their affiliates, will beneficially own approximately 6.0% of our outstanding Class A common stock on a fully diluted basis. As a result of Bluerock and the Bluerock Funds’ significant ownership in our company, Bluerock will have significant influence over our affairs and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders, including the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval such as the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In particular, this concentrated voting control could delay, defer or prevent a change of control, merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets that our other stockholders and our board of directors support. Conversely, Bluerock’s concentrated voting control could result in the consummation of such a transaction that our other stockholders and our board of directors do not support. Our executive officers have interests that may conflict with the interests of stockholders. Our executive officers are also affiliated with or are executive and/or senior officers of our Manager, Bluerock and their affiliates. These individuals may have personal and professional interests that conflict with the interests of our stockholders with respect to business decisions affecting us and our operating partnership. As a result, the effect of these conflicts of interest on these individuals may influence their decisions affecting the negotiation and consummation of the transactions whereby we acquire apartment properties in the future from Bluerock or its affiliates, or in the allocation of investment opportunities to us by Bluerock or its affiliates. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of the contribution agreements for the apartment properties we acquired from Fund I and the Bluerock Funds because of conflicts of interest with our senior management team. Our executive officers and two of our directors, one of whom is also chairman of our board of directors, have professional responsibilities with Fund I and the Bluerock Funds, which contributed interests in apartment properties to our operating partnership. As part of the contribution of these interests, Fund I and the Bluerock Funds made limited representations and warranties to us regarding the interests acquired. See “— Risks Related to Our Contribution Transactions — We may be subject to unknown liabilities in connection with our contribution transactions which could result in unexpected liabilities and expenses.” Any indemnification from Fund I and the Bluerock Funds related to the contribution is limited. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the contribution agreements due to our ongoing relationship between our executive officers and Bluerock. Our Manager, our executive officers and their affiliates may face conflicts of interest and competing demands on their time, which could adversely impact your investment. We rely on our Manager and its affiliates to select our properties and manage our assets and daily operations. Many of the same persons serve as directors, officers and employees of our company, our Manager and its affiliates. This amount will vary from week to week depending on our needs, as well as the needs of our affiliates for which our officers perform functions. Certain of our Manager’s affiliates, including its principals, are presently, and plan in the future to continue to be, and our Manager plans in the future to be, involved with real estate programs and activities which are unrelated to us. As a result of these activities, our Manager, its employees and certain of its affiliates have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between us and other activities in which they are or may become involved. Our Manager and its employees will devote only as much of their time to our business as our Manager, in its judgment, determines is reasonably required, which may be substantially less than their full time. Therefore, our Manager and its employees may experience conflicts of interest in allocating management time, services, and functions among us and other of our affiliates and any other business ventures in which they or any of their key personnel, as applicable, are or may become involved. This could result in actions that are more favorable to other of our affiliates than to us. However, our Manager believes that it and its affiliates have sufficient personnel to discharge fully their responsibilities to all of the activities of our affiliates in which they are involved. The incentive fee we pay our Manager may induce it to make riskier investments, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our stock. The incentive fee payable by us to our Manager is determined based on AFFO, which may create an incentive for our Manager to make investments that are risky or more speculative than would otherwise be in our best interests. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the incentive fee structure may lead our Manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of AFFO at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to increase its incentive fee. Investments with higher yields generally have higher risk of loss than investments with lower yields, and could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns, which could adversely affect the trading price of our stock. 23 We may be obligated to pay our Manager quarterly incentive fees even if we incur a net loss during a particular quarter and our Manager will receive a base management fee regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Our Manager is entitled to a quarterly incentive fee based on our pre-incentive fee AFFO, which will reward our Manager if our quarterly AFFO exceeds an 8% hurdle on our adjusted stockholders’ equity. Our AFFO for a particular quarter will exclude the effect of any unrealized gains, losses or other items during that quarter that do not affect realized net income, even if these adjustments result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Manager an incentive fee for a fiscal quarter even if we incur a net loss for that quarter as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our Manager is entitled to receive a base management fee based on a percentage of stockholders’ equity, regardless of our performance or its performance in managing our business. Our Manager will also receive reimbursement of expenses and fees incurred directly on our behalf regardless of its or our performance. As a result, even if our Manager does not identify profitable investment opportunities for us, it will still receive material compensation from us. This compensation structure may reduce our Manager’s incentive to devote time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio. If we acquire properties from affiliates of our Manager, the price may be higher than we would pay if the transaction were the result of arm’s-length negotiations. We may acquire properties or investments from Bluerock, our Manager, directors or officers, or their respective affiliates. The prices we pay for such properties will not be the subject of arm’s-length negotiations, which means that the acquisitions may be on terms less favorable to us than those negotiated in an arm’s-length transaction. Even though we expect to use an independent third-party appraiser to determine fair market value when acquiring properties from our Manager and its affiliates, we may pay more for particular properties than we would have in an arm’s-length transaction, which would reduce our cash available for investment in other properties or distribution to our stockholders. Legal counsel for us, Bluerock and some of our affiliates is the same law firm. Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank, PLC acts as legal counsel to us, Bluerock, Fund I and the Bluerock Funds, and some of our affiliates. Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank, PLC is not acting as counsel for any specific group of stockholders or any potential investor. There is a possibility in the future that the interests of the various parties may become adverse and, under the Code of Professional Responsibility of the legal profession, Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank, PLC may be precluded from representing any one or all of such parties. If any situation arises in which our interests appear to be in conflict with those of our Manager or our affiliates, additional counsel may be retained by one or more of the parties to assure that their interests are adequately protected. Moreover, should such a conflict not be readily apparent, Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank, PLC may inadvertently act in derogation of the interest of parties which could adversely affect us, and our ability to meet our investment objectives and, therefore, our stockholders. We have entered into joint venture investments with affiliates of Bluerock and may continue to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2015, all but five of our investments in equity interests in real property have been made through joint venture arrangements with affiliates of Bluerock as well as unaffiliated third parties. We expect that our Manager will continue to be presented with opportunities to purchase all or a portion of a property. In such instances, it is likely that we will continue to work together with programs sponsored by Bluerock to apportion the assets within the property among us and such other programs in accordance with the investment objectives of the various programs and the terms of our investment allocation agreement. After such apportionment, the property would be owned by two or more programs sponsored by Bluerock or joint ventures composed of programs sponsored by affiliates of Bluerock. The negotiation of how to divide the property among the various programs will not be at arm’s-length and conflicts of interest will arise in the process. We cannot assure you that we will be as successful as we otherwise would be if we enter into joint venture arrangements with programs sponsored by Bluerock or with affiliates of Bluerock or our Manager. It is possible that in connection with the purchase of a property or in the course of negotiations with programs sponsored by Bluerock to allocate portions of such property, we may be required to purchase a property that we would otherwise consider inappropriate for our portfolio, in order to also purchase a property that our Manager considers desirable. Although we expect to conduct independent appraisals of the assets comprising the property prior to apportionment, it is possible that we could pay more for an asset in this type of transaction than we would pay in an arm’s-length transaction with a third party unaffiliated with our Manager. The terms pursuant to which affiliates of Bluerock manage one of our joint venture partners will differ from the terms pursuant to which our Manager manages us. Moreover, affiliates of Bluerock may also have a much more significant ownership interest in such joint venture partner than in us. As a result, Bluerock may have financial incentives to structure the terms of the joint venture in a way that favors such joint venture partner. In addition, the co-venturer may have economic or business interests or goals that are or may become inconsistent with our business interests or goals. Since Bluerock and its affiliates control both us and any affiliated co-venturer, agreements and transactions between the co-venturers with respect to any such joint venture do not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers. 24 Risks Associated with Debt Financing We have used and may continue to use mortgage and other debt financing to acquire properties or interests in properties and otherwise incur other indebtedness, which increases our expenses and could subject us to the risk of losing properties in foreclosure if our cash flow is insufficient to make loan payments. We are permitted to acquire real properties and other real estate-related investments, including entity acquisitions, by assuming either existing financing secured by the asset or by borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur or increase our mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by some or all of our assets to obtain funds to acquire additional investments or to pay distributions to our stockholders. We also may borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual “REIT taxable income,” or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. There is no limit on the amount we may invest in any single property or other asset or on the amount we can borrow to purchase any individual property or other investment. If we mortgage a property and have insufficient cash flow to service the debt, we risk an event of default which may result in our lenders foreclosing on the properties securing the mortgage. If we cannot repay or refinance loans incurred to purchase our properties, or interests therein, then we may lose our interests in the properties secured by the loans we are unable to repay or refinance. High levels of debt or increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our loan payments, which could reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders. Our policies do not limit us from incurring debt. For purposes of calculating our leverage, we assume full consolidation of all of our real estate investments, whether or not they would be consolidated under GAAP, include assets we have classified as held for sale, and include any joint venture level indebtedness in our total indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, the ratio of our total indebtedness to the fair market value of our real estate investments as determined by our Manager was 61.7%, which is high relative to other listed REITs. These high debt levels cause us to incur higher interest charges, resulting in higher debt service payments, and may be accompanied by restrictive covenants. Interest we pay reduces cash available for distribution to stockholders. Additionally, with respect to our variable rate debt, increases in interest rates increase our interest costs, which reduces our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to you. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments and could result in a loss. In addition, if we are unable to service our debt payments, our lenders may foreclose on our interests in the real property that secures the loans we have entered into. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our cash flow from operations and the amount of cash distributions we can make. To qualify as a REIT, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our stockholders in each taxable year, and thus our ability to retain internally generated cash is limited. Accordingly, our ability to acquire properties or to make capital improvements to or remodel properties will depend on our ability to obtain debt or equity financing from third parties or the sellers of properties. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the debt becomes due or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance the properties, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance properties. If any of these events occurs, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to you and may hinder our ability to raise capital by issuing more stock or borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to you. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage, or replace our Manager. These or other limitations may limit our flexibility and prevent us from achieving our operating plans. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, it may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our cash flows from operations and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If we are unable to borrow monies on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we likely will have to reduce the number of properties we can purchase, and the return on the properties we do purchase may be lower. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the debt becomes due or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance the properties, our income could be reduced. As such, we may find it difficult, costly or impossible to refinance indebtedness which is maturing. If any of these events occur, our interest cost would increase as a result, which would reduce our cash flow. This, in turn, could reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise capital by issuing more stock or borrowing more money. If we are unable to refinance maturing indebtedness with respect to a particular property and are unable to pay the same, then the lender may foreclose on such property. 25 Financial and real estate market disruptions could adversely affect the multifamily property sector's ability to obtain financing from Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which could adversely impact us. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are major sources of financing for the multifamily sector and both have historically experienced losses due to credit-related expenses, securities impairments and fair value losses. If new U.S. government regulations (i) heighten Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's underwriting standards, (ii) adversely affect interest rates, or (iii) reduce the amount of capital they can make available to the multifamily sector, it could reduce or remove entirely a vital resource for multifamily financing. Any potential reduction in loans, guarantees and credit-enhancement arrangements from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could jeopardize the effectiveness of the multifamily sector's available financing and decrease the amount of available liquidity and credit that could be used to acquire and diversify our portfolio of multifamily assets. Volatility in and regulation of the commercial mortgage-backed securities market has limited and may continue to impact the pricing of secured debt. As a result of the past crisis in the residential mortgage-backed securities markets, the most recent global recession and some concerns over the ability to refinance or repay existing commercial mortgage-backed securities as they come due, liquidity previously provided by the commercial mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations markets has significantly decreased. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes significant new regulations related to the mortgage backed securities industry and market participants, which has contributed to uncertainty in the market. The volatility in the commercial mortgage-backed securities market could result in the following adverse effects on our incurrence of secured debt, which could have a materially negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and cash available for distribution: •higher loan spreads; •tighter loan covenants; •reduced loan to value ratios and resulting borrower proceeds; and •higher amortization and reserve requirements. Some of our mortgage loans may have “due on sale” provisions, which may impact the manner in which we acquire, sell and/or finance our properties. In purchasing properties subject to financing, we may obtain financing with “due-on-sale” and/or “due-on-encumbrance” clauses. Due-on-sale clauses in mortgages allow a mortgage lender to demand full repayment of the mortgage loan if the borrower sells the mortgaged property. Similarly, due-on-encumbrance clauses allow a mortgage lender to demand full repayment if the borrower uses the real estate securing the mortgage loan as security for another loan. In such event, we may be required to sell our properties on an all-cash basis, which may make it more difficult to sell the property or reduce the selling price. Lenders may be able to recover against our other properties under our mortgage loans. In financing our property acquisitions, we will seek to obtain secured nonrecourse loans. However, only recourse financing may be available, in which event, in addition to the property securing the loan, the lender would have the ability to look to our other assets for satisfaction of the debt if the proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the property securing the loan are insufficient to fully repay it. Also, in order to facilitate the sale of a property, we may allow the buyer to purchase the property subject to an existing loan whereby we remain responsible for the debt. If we are required to make payments under any “bad boy” carve-out guaranties that we may provide in connection with certain mortgages and related loans, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In obtaining certain nonrecourse loans, we may provide standard carve-out guaranties. These guaranties are only applicable if and when the borrower directly, or indirectly through agreement with an affiliate, joint venture partner or other third party, voluntarily files a bankruptcy or similar liquidation or reorganization action or takes other actions that are fraudulent or improper (commonly referred to as “bad boy” guaranties). Although we believe that “bad boy” carve-out guaranties are not guaranties of payment in the event of foreclosure or other actions of the foreclosing lender that are beyond the borrower’s control, some lenders in the real estate industry have recently sought to make claims for payment under such guaranties. In the event such a claim were made against us under a “bad boy” carve-out guaranty following foreclosure on mortgages or related loan, and such claim were successful, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. 26 Interest-only indebtedness may increase our risk of default and ultimately may reduce our funds available for distribution to our stockholders. We may finance our property acquisitions using interest-only mortgage indebtedness. During the interest-only period, the amount of each scheduled payment will be less than that of a traditional amortizing mortgage loan. The principal balance of the mortgage loan will not be reduced (except in the case of prepayments) because there are no scheduled monthly payments of principal during this period. After the interest-only period, we will be required either to make scheduled payments of amortized principal and interest or to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. These required principal or balloon payments will increase the amount of our scheduled payments and may increase our risk of default under the related mortgage loan. If the mortgage loan has an adjustable interest rate, the amount of our scheduled payments also may increase at a time of rising interest rates. Increased payments and substantial principal or balloon maturity payments will reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because cash otherwise available for distribution will be required to pay principal and interest associated with these mortgage loans. To hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we may use derivative financial instruments that may be costly and ineffective, may reduce the overall returns on your investment, and may expose us to the credit risk of counterparties. To the extent consistent with maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may use derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to interest rate fluctuations on loans secured by our assets and investments in collateralized mortgage-backed securities. Derivative instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or repurchase agreements. Our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the hedge and may differ from time to time. To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments to hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we will be exposed to financing, basis risk and legal enforceability risks. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. Basis risk occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. Finally, legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks, including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to you will be adversely affected. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge risk effectively. We must satisfy two gross income tests annually to maintain our qualification as a REIT. First, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income that we derive, directly or indirectly, from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property or qualified temporary investment income (the “75% Gross Income Test”). Second, in general, at least 95% of our gross income for each taxable year must consist of income that is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% Gross Income Test, other types of interest and dividends, gain from the sale or disposition of shares or securities, or any combination of these (the “95% Gross Income Test”). These and other REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge the risks inherent to our operations. From time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions with respect to one or more of our assets or liabilities. Our hedging transactions may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to purchase these items, and futures and forward contracts. Any income or gain derived by us from transactions that hedge certain risks, such as the risk of changes in interest rates, will not be treated as gross income for purposes of either the 75% Gross Income Test or the 95% Gross Income Test, unless specific requirements are met. Such requirements include that the hedging transaction be properly identified within prescribed time periods and that the transaction either (1) hedges risks associated with indebtedness issued by us that is incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets or (2) manages the risks of currency fluctuations with respect to income or gain that qualifies under the 75% Gross Income Test or 95% Gross Income Test (or assets that generate such income). To the extent that we do not properly identify such transactions as hedges, hedge with other types of financial instruments, or hedge other types of indebtedness, the income from those transactions is not likely to be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% Gross Income Test and the 95% Gross Income Test. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit the use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur. You may not receive any profits resulting from the sale of one of our properties, or receive such profits in a timely manner, because we may provide financing for the purchaser of such property. If we liquidate our company, you may experience a delay before receiving your share of the proceeds of such liquidation. In a forced or voluntary liquidation, we may sell our properties either subject to or upon the assumption of any then outstanding mortgage debt or, alternatively, may provide financing to purchasers. We may take a purchase money obligation secured by a mortgage as partial payment. We do not have any limitations or restrictions on our taking such purchase money obligations. To the extent we receive promissory notes or other property instead of cash from sales, such proceeds, other than any interest payable on those proceeds, will not be included in net sale proceeds until and to the extent the promissory notes or other property are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In certain cases, we may receive initial down payments in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments may be spread over a number of years. In such cases, you may experience a delay in the distribution of the proceeds of a sale until such time. 27 Risks Related to an Offering of our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock has been volatile at times following the IPO, and these trends may continue following an offering, which may adversely impact the market for shares of our Class A common stock and make it difficult for purchasers to sell their shares. Prior to the IPO, there was no active market for our common stock. Although our Class A common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT, the stock markets, including the NYSE MKT on which our Class A common stock is listed, have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Our Class A common stock has frequently traded below the IPO price since the completion of the IPO. As a result, the market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be similarly volatile, and holders of shares of our Class A common stock may from time to time experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The offering price for shares of our Class A common stock is expected to be determined by negotiation between us and the underwriters. Purchasers may not be able to sell their shares of Class A common stock at or above the offering price. The price of shares of our Class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: •our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; •actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly operating results; •changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports about us, the apartment real estate sector, apartment tenants or the real estate industry; • increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to demand a higher distribution yield for shares of our Class A common stock, and would result in increased interest expenses on our debt; • the current state of the credit and capital markets, and our ability and the ability of our tenants to obtain financing; • additions and departures of key personnel of our Manager; • increased competition in the multifamily real estate business in our target markets; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • equity issuances by us (including the issuances of operating partnership units), or common stock resales by our stockholders, or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur; • actual, potential or perceived accounting problems; • changes in accounting principles; • failure to qualify as a REIT; • terrorist acts, natural or man-made disasters or threatened or actual armed conflicts; and • general market and local, regional and national economic conditions, particularly in our target markets, including factors unrelated to our performance. No assurance can be given that the market price of shares of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future or that holders of shares of our Class A common stock will be able to sell their shares when desired on favorable terms, or at all. From time to time in the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of extreme volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our stock, and these restrictions may inhibit your ability to sell your stock. Our charter contains a restriction on ownership of our shares that generally prevents any one person from owning more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding shares of stock or more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common stock, unless otherwise excepted (prospectively or retroactively) by our board of directors. 28 Sales of shares of our Class A common stock, or the perception that such sales will occur, may have adverse effects on our share price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of Class A common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of Class A common stock, including shares of Class A common stock issued in an offering, issuable upon the exchange of OP Units, the sale of shares of Class A common stock held by our current stockholders, and the sale of any shares we may issue under our 2014 Incentive Plans, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock. We may be required to conduct additional offerings to raise more funds. These offerings or the perception of a need for offerings may affect the market prices for our Class A common stock. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our Class A common stock is our distribution yield, which is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution yield on our Class A common stock or may seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. The market price of our Class A common stock likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our investments and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions are likely to affect the market price of our Class A common stock, and such effects could be significant. For example, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our Class A common stock as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. We have paid and may continue to pay distributions from offering proceeds, borrowings or the sale of assets to the extent our cash flow from operations or earnings are not sufficient to fund declared distributions. Rates of distribution to you will not necessarily be indicative of our operating results. If we make distributions from sources other than our cash flows from operations or earnings, we will have fewer funds available for the acquisition of properties and your overall return may be reduced. Our organizational documents permit us to make distributions from any source, including the net proceeds from an offering. There is no limit on the amount of offering proceeds we may use to pay distributions. We have funded and may continue to fund distributions from the net proceeds of our offerings, borrowings and the sale of assets to the extent distributions exceed our earnings or cash flows from operations. While our policy is generally to pay distributions from cash flow from operations, our distributions through December 31, 2015 have been paid from proceeds from our Continuous Registered Offerings conducted prior to the IPO, proceeds from the IPO and the Follow-On Offerings, and sales of assets, and may in the future be paid from additional sources, such as from borrowings. To the extent we fund distributions from sources other than cash flow from operations, such distributions may constitute a return of capital and we will have fewer funds available for the acquisition of properties and your overall return may be reduced. Further, to the extent distributions exceed our earnings and profits, a stockholder’s basis in our stock will be reduced and, to the extent distributions exceed a stockholder’s basis, the stockholder will be required to recognize capital gain. We have issued Series A Preferred Stock and intend to issue Series B Preferred Stock, which, along with future issuances of debt securities and preferred equity, rank senior to our Class A common stock in priority of dividend payment and upon liquidation, dissolution winding up, and may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. We have issued 2,875,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and are offering up to 150,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock in a continuous offering that are senior to our common stock with respect to priority of dividend payments and rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock may limit our ability to make distributions to holders of our Class A common stock. In the future, we may issue debt or additional preferred equity securities or incur other borrowings. Upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities, other loans and Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and additional preferred stock, if any, will receive a distribution of our available assets before common stockholders. Any additional preferred stock, if issued, likely will also have a preference on periodic distribution payments, which could eliminate or otherwise limit our ability to make distributions to holders of our Class A common stock. Holders of shares of our Class A common stock bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities, including Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, or our incurrence of other borrowings may negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. We operate as a holding company dependent upon the assets and operations of our subsidiaries, and because of our structure, we may not be able to generate the funds necessary to make dividend payments on our common stock. We generally operate as a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through our operating partnership, which in turn is a holding company conducting its business through its subsidiaries. These subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and are our only source of income. Accordingly, we are dependent on cash flows and payments of funds to us by our subsidiaries as dividends, distributions, loans, advances, leases or other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to make dividend payments on our common stock. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends and/or make such loans, advances, leases or other payments may be restricted by, among other things, applicable laws and regulations, current and future debt agreements and management agreements into which our subsidiaries may enter, which may impair our ability to make cash payments on our common stock. In addition, such agreements may prohibit or limit the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer any of their property or assets to us, any of our other subsidiaries or to third parties. Our future indebtedness or our subsidiaries’ future indebtedness may also include restrictions with similar effects. 29 In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholders’ claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, claims of our stockholders will be satisfied only after all of our and our operating partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. Your percentage of ownership may be diluted if we issue new shares of stock. Stockholders have no rights to buy additional shares of our stock in the event we issue new shares of stock. We may issue common stock, convertible debt or preferred stock pursuant to a subsequent public offering or a private placement, to sellers of properties we directly or indirectly acquire instead of, or in addition to, cash consideration, or to our Manager in payment of some or all of the base management fee or incentive fee or operating expense reimbursements that may be earned by our Manager. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Investors purchasing shares of our Class A common stock in an offering who do not participate in any future stock issuances will experience dilution in the percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of Class A common stock they own. In addition, while shares of our Class B-3 common stock will not be listed on a national securities exchange, such shares convert automatically into shares of Class A common stock on March 17, 2016. We cannot predict the effect that the conversion of shares of our Class B-3 common stock into shares of Class A common stock will have on the market price of our Class A common stock, but this conversion may place downward pressure on the price of our Class A common stock, particularly at the time of conversion. As a further result of this conversion, owners of shares of our Class A common stock will experience dilution in the percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of Class A common stock they own. Redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock for shares of our Class A common stock will dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our Class A common stock, including stockholders whose shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock were previously redeemed for shares of our Class A common stock, and stockholders whose shares of Series B Preferred Stock were previously converted into shares of our Class A common stock or whose Warrants were previously exercised for shares of our Class A common stock. Commencing on October 21, 2022, the holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock have the option to cause us to redeem their shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued but unpaid dividends. In addition, the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock may require us to redeem such shares based on the volume weighted average price per share of our Class A common stock for the 20 trading days prior to the redemption. The redemption price for any such redemptions of shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock are payable, in our sole discretion, in cash or in equal value of shares of our Class A common stock, at our option. The redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock or our Series B Preferred Stock for shares of our Class A common stock may result in the dilution of some or all of the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including stockholders whose shares of Series A Preferred Stock were previously redeemed for shares of our Class A common stock, and stockholders whose shares of Series B Preferred Stock were previously converted into shares of our Class A common stock or whose Warrants were previously exercised for shares of our Class A common stock. Any sales in the public market of our Class A common stock issuable upon any such redemption could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A common stock. In addition, any redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock or our Series B Preferred Stock for shares of our Class A common stock could depress the price of our Class A common stock. Because shares of our common stock were not listed on a national securities exchange prior to the IPO, there may be pent-up demand to sell such shares. Significant sales of shares of our Class A common stock, or the perception that significant sales of such shares could occur, may cause the price of shares of our Class A common stock to decline significantly. Prior to the IPO, shares of our common stock were not listed on any national securities exchange and the ability of stockholders to liquidate their investments was limited. As a result, there may be pent-up demand to sell shares of our common stock. A large volume of sales of shares of our Class A common stock (whether such Class A shares are issued in an offering, OP Units exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock in connection with the contribution transactions, or shares of our Class A common stock created by the automatic conversion of shares of our Class B-3 common stock) could further decrease the prevailing market price of our shares of Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. Even if sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock are not effectuated, the perception of the possibility of these sales could depress the market price for shares of our Class A common stock and have a negative effect on our ability to raise capital in the future. 30 Risks Related to Offerings of our Series A Preferred Stock and/or our Series B Preferred Stock Because we conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating partnership, our ability to pay dividends on both our Series A Preferred Stock and our Series B Preferred Stock depends almost entirely on the distributions we receive from our operating partnership. We may not be able to pay dividends regularly on our Series A Preferred Stock or on our Series B Preferred Stock. We may not be able to pay dividends on a regular quarterly basis in the future on either or both of our Series A Preferred Stock or our Series B Preferred Stock. We intend to contribute the entire net proceeds from the offerings of our Series A Preferred Stock and our Series B Preferred Stock to our operating partnership in exchange for Series A Preferred Units and Series B Preferred Units (as applicable) that have substantially the same economic terms as the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock (respectively). Because we conduct substantially all of our operations through our operating partnership, our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock will depend almost entirely on payments and distributions we receive on our interests in our operating partnership. If our operating partnership fails to operate profitably and to generate sufficient cash from operations (and the operations of its subsidiaries), we may not be able to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock. Furthermore, any new shares of preferred stock on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock and/or the Series B Preferred Stock will substantially increase the cash required to continue to pay cash dividends at stated levels. Any common stock or preferred stock that may be issued in the future to finance acquisitions, upon exercise of stock options or otherwise, would have a similar effect. Your interests in our Series A Preferred Stock and/or our Series B Preferred Stock could be diluted by the incurrence of additional debt, the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, including additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock and/or Series B Preferred Stock, and by other transactions. As of December 31, 2015, our total long term indebtedness was approximately $383.6 million, and we may incur significant additional debt in the future. Each of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock is subordinate to all of our existing and future debt and liabilities and those of our subsidiaries. Our future debt may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to preferred stockholders in the event of a default under the debt facilities or under other circumstances. Our charter currently authorizes the issuance of up to 250,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series, and we have issued 2,875,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and are offering up to 150,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The issuance of additional preferred stock on parity with or senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock would dilute the interests of the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock (respectively), and any issuance of preferred stock senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock, or of additional indebtedness, could affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Series A Preferred Stock and/or on the Series B Preferred Stock. We may issue preferred stock on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock without the consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, and we may issue preferred stock on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock without the consent of the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock. Other than the Asset Coverage Ratio (as defined below) with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock and the right of holders to cause us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock upon a Change of Control/Delisting (as defined below), none of the provisions relating to the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock relate to or limit our indebtedness or afford the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock protection in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, that might adversely affect the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock or the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock. In the event a holder of our Series A Preferred Stock exercises a Redemption at Option of Holder on or after October 21, 2022, or a holder of our Series B Preferred Stock exercises their redemption option, we may redeem such shares of Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock, as applicable, either for cash, or for shares of our Class A common stock, or any combination thereof, in our sole discretion. If we choose to so redeem for Class A common stock, the holder will receive shares of our Class A common stock and therefore be subject to the risks of ownership thereof. See “—Risks Related to an Offering of our Class A Common Stock.” Ownership of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock or shares of our Series B Preferred Stock will not give you the rights of holders of our common stock. Until and unless you receive shares of our Class A common stock upon redemption, you will have only those rights applicable to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock or our Series B Preferred Stock (as applicable). Neither the Series A Preferred Stock nor the Series B Preferred Stock has been rated. We have not sought to obtain a rating for either the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock. No assurance can be given, however, that one or more rating agencies might not independently determine to issue such ratings or that such a ratings, if issued, would not adversely affect the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock (as applicable). In addition, we may elect in the future to obtain a rating of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or the Series B Preferred Stock, which could adversely impact the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or the Series B Preferred Stock. Ratings only reflect the views of the rating agency or agencies issuing the ratings and such ratings could be revised downward, placed on negative outlook or withdrawn entirely at the discretion of the issuing rating agency if in its judgment circumstances so warrant. While ratings do not reflect market prices or the suitability of a security for a particular investor, such downward revision or withdrawal of a rating could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock. It is also possible that the Series A Preferred Stock and/or the Series B Preferred Stock will never be rated. 31 Dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and on the Series B Preferred Stock are not guaranteed. Although dividends on each of the Series A Preferred Stock and on the Series B Preferred Stock are cumulative, our board of directors must approve the actual payment of such distributions. Our board of directors can elect at any time or from time to time, and for an indefinite duration, not to pay any or all accrued distributions. Our board of directors could do so for any reason, and may be prohibited from doing so in the following instances: • poor historical or projected cash flows; • the need to make payments on our indebtedness; • concluding that payment of distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock and/or on the Series B Preferred Stock would cause us to breach the terms of any indebtedness or other instrument or agreement; or • determining that the payment of distributions would violate applicable law regarding unlawful distributions to stockholders. We intend to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Series A Preferred Stock to fund future investments and for other general corporate and working capital purposes, but the offering is not conditioned upon the closing of pending property investments and we will have broad discretion to determine alternative uses of proceeds. We intend to use a portion of the net proceeds from the offering of our Series A Preferred Stock to fund future investments and for other general corporate and working capital purposes. However, the offering is not conditioned upon the closing of definitive agreements to acquire or invest in any properties. We will have broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from the offering, and holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will not have the opportunity as part of their investment decision to assess whether the net proceeds are being used appropriately. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of the net proceeds from the offering of our Series A Preferred Stock, their ultimate use may vary substantially from their currently intended use, and result in investments that are not accretive to our results from operations. Our Series A Preferred Stock is a new issuance and does not have an established trading market, which, among other factors, may negatively affect its market value and the ability of holders of our Series A Preferred Stock to transfer or sell their shares. The Series A Preferred Stock is a new issue of securities with no established trading market. The Series A Preferred Stock is listed on the NYSE MKT under the symbol “BRG-PrA”, but there can be no assurance that an active trading market on the NYSE MKT for the shares will develop or continue, and transaction costs could be high, in which case the trading price of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock could be adversely affected and the ability to transfer or sell shares of our Series A Preferred Stock will be limited. If an active trading market does exist on the NYSE MKT, the Series A Preferred Stock may trade at prices lower than the initial offering price. The trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock will depend on many factors, including: • prevailing interest rates; • the market for similar securities; • general economic and financial market conditions; • our issuance of debt or preferred equity securities; and • our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we are required to make payments under any “bad boy” carve-out guaranties, recourse guaranties, and completion guaranties that we may provide in connection with certain mortgages and related loans in connection with an event that constitutes a Change of Control/Delisting, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In causing our subsidiaries to obtain certain nonrecourse loans, we may provide standard carve-out guaranties. These guaranties are generally only applicable if and when the borrower directly, or indirectly through agreement with an affiliate, joint venture partner or other third party, voluntarily files a bankruptcy or similar liquidation or reorganization action or takes other actions that are fraudulent or improper (commonly referred to as “bad boy” guaranties). We also may enter into recourse guaranties with respect to future mortgages, or provide credit support to development projects through completion guaranties, which also could increase risk of repayment. In some circumstances, pursuant to guarantees to which we are a party or that we may enter into in the future, our obligations pursuant to such “bad boy” carve-out guaranties and other guaranties may be triggered by a Change of Control/Delisting, because, among other things, such an event may result indirectly in a change of control of the applicable borrower. Because a Change of Control/Delisting while any Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding also triggers a right of redemption for cash by the holders thereof, the effect of a Change of Control/Delisting could negatively impact our liquidity and overall financial condition, and could negatively impact the ability of holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to receive dividends or other amounts on their shares of Series A Preferred Stock. 32 There is a risk of delay in our redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock, and we may fail to redeem such securities as required by their terms. Substantially all of the investments we presently hold and the investments we expect to acquire in the future are, and will be, illiquid. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to obtain cash quickly if a need arises. If we are unable to obtain sufficient liquidity prior to a redemption date, we may be forced to engage in a partial redemption or to delay a required redemption. If such a partial redemption or delay were to occur, the market price of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock might be adversely affected, and stockholders entitled to a redemption payment may not receive payment. The Series A Preferred Stock will bear a risk of early redemption by us. We may voluntarily redeem some or all of the Series A Preferred Stock for cash on or after October 21, 2020. Any such redemptions may occur at a time that is unfavorable to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. We may have an incentive to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock voluntarily if market conditions allow us to issue other preferred stock or debt securities at an interest or distribution rate that is lower than the distribution rate on the Series A Preferred Stock. Given the potential for early redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock, holders of such shares may face an increased reinvestment risk, which is the risk that the return on an investment purchased with proceeds from the sale or redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock may be lower than the return previously obtained from the investment in such shares. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock should not expect us to redeem the shares of Series A Preferred Stock on the date they first become redeemable or on any particular date after they become redeemable. Except in limited circumstances related to our ability to qualify as a REIT, our compliance with our Asset Coverage Ratio, or a special optional redemption in connection with a Change of Control/Delisting, the Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed by us at our option, either in whole or in part, only on or after October 21, 2020. Any decision we make at any time to propose a redemption of the Series A Preferred Stock will depend upon, among other things, our evaluation of our capital position and general market conditions at the time. It is likely that we would choose to exercise our optional redemption right only when prevailing interest rates have declined, which would adversely affect the ability of holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to reinvest proceeds from the redemption in a comparable investment with an equal or greater yield to the yield on the Series A Preferred Stock had their shares not been redeemed. In addition, there is no penalty or premium payable on redemption, and the market price of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock may not exceed the $25.00 liquidation preference at the time the shares become redeemable for any reason. Compliance with the Asset Coverage Ratio may result in our early redemption of your Series A Preferred Stock. The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock require us to maintain asset coverage of at least 200% calculated by determining the percentage value of (1) our total assets plus accumulated depreciation minus our total liabilities and indebtedness as reported in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP (exclusive of the book value of any Redeemable and Term Preferred Stock (as defined below)), over (2) the aggregate liquidation preference, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends, of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and any outstanding shares of term preferred stock or preferred stock providing for a fixed mandatory redemption date or maturity date (collectively referred to as “Redeemable and Term Preferred Stock”) on the last business day of any calendar quarter (the “Asset Coverage Ratio”). If we are not in compliance with the Asset Coverage Ratio, we may redeem shares of Redeemable and Term Preferred Stock, which may include Series A Preferred Stock, including shares that will result in compliance with the Asset Coverage Ratio up to and including 285%. This could result in our ability to redeem a significant amount of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to October 21, 2020. We may not have sufficient funds to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock upon a Change of Control/Delisting. A “Change of Control/Delisting” is when, after the original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, any of the following has occurred and is continuing: • a “person” or “group” within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act”), other than our company, its subsidiaries, and its and their employee benefit plans, has become the direct or indirect “beneficial owner,” as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of our common equity representing more than 50% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our common equity that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, with the exception of the formation of a holding company; • consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of our company or any other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which our common stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of our common stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the common stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; 33 • any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of our company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one of the company’s subsidiaries; • our stockholders approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of our company; • our Class A common stock ceases to be listed or quoted on a national securities exchange in the United States; or • at least a majority of our board of directors ceases to be constituted of directors who were either a member of our board of directors on October 21, 2015 or who became a member of our board of directors subsequent to that date and whose appointment, election or nomination for election by our stockholders was duly approved by a majority of the continuing directors on our board of directors at the time of such approval, either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by our company on behalf of our board of directors in which such individual is named as nominee for director (each, a “Series A Continuing Director”). Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control/Delisting, unless we have exercised our right to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock, each holder of the Series A Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to redeem all or any part of such stockholder’s Series A Preferred Stock at a price equal to the liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, plus an amount equal to any accumulated and unpaid dividends up to and including the date of payment. If we experience a Change of Control/Delisting, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient financial resources available to satisfy our obligations to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock and any guarantees or indebtedness that may be required to be repaid or repurchased as a result of such event. Our failure to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock could have material adverse consequences for us and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the special optional redemption in connection with a Change of Control/Delisting feature of the Series A Preferred Stock may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the company, or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock with the opportunity for liquidity or the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price or that stockholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests. Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of the Series A Preferred Stock. One of the factors that will influence the price of the Series A Preferred Stock will be the dividend yield on the Series A Preferred Stock (as a percentage of the price of the Series A Preferred Stock, as applicable) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of the Series A Preferred Stock to expect a higher dividend yield and higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock to decrease. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will be subject to inflation risk. Inflation is the reduction in the purchasing power of money resulting from the increase in the price of goods and services. Inflation risk is the risk that the inflation-adjusted, or “real,” value of an investment in preferred stock or the income from that investment will be worth less in the future. As inflation occurs, the real value of the Series A Preferred Stock and dividends payable on such shares declines. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock have extremely limited voting rights. The voting rights of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be extremely limited. Our common stock is the only class or series of our stock carrying full voting rights. Voting rights for holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock exist primarily with respect to the ability to elect two additional directors in the event that dividends for each of six quarterly dividend periods payable on the Series A Preferred Stock are in arrears, and with respect to voting on amendments to our charter that materially and adversely affect the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock or the creation of additional classes or series of preferred stock that are senior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our affairs. Other than in limited circumstances, holders of Series A Preferred Stock will not have voting rights. The amount of the liquidation preference is fixed and holders of Series A Preferred Stock will have no right to receive any greater payment. The payment due upon liquidation is fixed at the liquidation preference of $25.00 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, to, but not including the date of, liquidation, whether or not authorized or declared. If, in the case of our liquidation, there are remaining assets to be distributed after payment of this amount, you will have no right to receive or to participate in these amounts. Further, if the market price of a holder’s shares of Series A Preferred Stock is greater than the liquidation preference, the holder will have no right to receive the market price from us upon our liquidation. 34 Our charter and the articles supplementary establishing the Series A Preferred Stock each contain restrictions upon ownership and transfer of the Series A Preferred Stock, which may impair the ability of holders to acquire the Series A Preferred Stock and the shares of our common stock into which shares of Series A Preferred Stock may be converted, at the company’s option, pursuant to the redemption at the option of the holder after October 21, 2022. Our charter and the articles supplementary establishing the Series A Preferred Stock each contain restrictions on ownership and transfer of the Series A Preferred Stock intended to assist us in maintaining our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. For example, to assist us in qualifying as a REIT, the articles supplementary establishing the Series A Preferred Stock prohibit anyone from owning, or being deemed to own by virtue of the applicable constructive ownership provisions of the Code, more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. You should consider these ownership limitations prior to a purchase of the Series A Preferred Stock. The restrictions could also have anti-takeover effects and could reduce the possibility that a third party will attempt to acquire control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock. Our ability to pay dividends or redeem shares is limited by the requirements of Maryland law. Our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock or redeem shares is limited by the laws of Maryland. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland corporation generally may not make a distribution (including a dividend or redemption) if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as the debts become due in the usual course of business, or the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus, unless the corporation’s charter provides otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we generally may not make a distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus, unless the terms of such class or series provide otherwise, the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any class or series of preferred stock then outstanding, if any, with preferences senior to those of the Series A Preferred Stock. Any dividends or redemption payments may be delayed or prohibited. If our common stock is delisted, the ability to transfer or sell shares of the Series A Preferred Stock may be limited and the market value of the Series A Preferred Stock will be materially adversely affected. If our common stock is delisted, it is likely that the Series A Preferred Stock will be delisted as well. Accordingly, if our common stock is delisted, the ability of holders to transfer or sell their shares of the Series A Preferred Stock may be limited and the market value of the Series A Preferred Stock may be materially adversely affected. To the extent that our distributions represent a return of capital for tax purposes, stockholders may recognize an increased gain or a reduced loss upon subsequent sales (including cash redemptions) of their shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The dividends payable by us on the Series A Preferred Stock may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If that were to occur, it would result in the amount of distributions that exceed our earnings and profits being treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in the stockholder’s Series A Preferred Stock and then, to the extent of any excess over the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in the stockholder’s Series A Preferred Stock, as capital gain. Any distribution that is treated as a return of capital will reduce the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in the stockholder’s Series A Preferred Stock, and subsequent sales (including cash redemptions) of such stockholder’s Series A Preferred Stock will result in recognition of an increased taxable gain or reduced taxable loss due to the reduction in such adjusted tax basis. There is no public market for our Series B Preferred Stock or Warrants and we do not expect one to develop. There is no public market for our Series B Preferred Stock or Warrants offered in this offering, and we currently have no plan to list these securities on a securities exchange or to include these shares for quotation on any national securities market. Additionally, our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our securities, including our Series B Preferred Stock, and these restrictions may inhibit the ability to sell shares of our Series B Preferred Stock or Warrants promptly or at all. Furthermore, the Warrants will expire four years from the date of issuance. If holders are able to sell the Series B Preferred Stock or Warrants, they may only be able to be sold at a substantial discount from the price originally paid. Therefore, Units should be purchased only as a long-term investment. After one year from the date of issuance, the Warrants will be exercisable at the option of the holder for shares of our Class A common stock, which currently are publicly traded on the NYSE MKT. Beginning two years from the date of original issuance, we may redeem, and upon original issuance the holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock may require us to redeem, such shares, with the redemption price payable, in our sole discretion, in cash or in equal value of shares of our Class A common stock, based on the volume weighted average price per share of our Class A common stock for the 20 trading days prior to the redemption. If we opt to pay the redemption price in shares of our Class A common stock, holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock may receive publicly traded shares as we currently expect to continue listing our Class A common stock on the NYSE MKT. 35 We will be required to terminate our offering of Series B Preferred Stock if our Class A common stock is no longer listed on the NYSE MKT or another national securities exchange. The Series B Preferred Stock is a “covered security” and therefore is not subject to registration under the state securities, or “Blue Sky,” regulations in the various states in which it may be sold due to its seniority to our Class A common stock, which is listed on the NYSE MKT. If our Class A common stock is no longer listed on the NYSE MKT or another appropriate exchange, we will be required to register the offering or Series B Preferred Stock in any state in which we subsequently offer the Units. This would require the termination of the offering and could result in our raising an amount of gross proceeds that is substantially less than the amount of the gross proceeds we expect to raise if the maximum offering is sold. This would reduce our ability to make additional investments and limit the diversification of our portfolio. Although the Warrants are not “covered securities,” most states include an exemption from securities registration for warrants that are exercisable into a listed security. Therefore, the Warrants are subject to state securities registration in any state that does not provide such an exemption and the offering of Series B Preferred Stock must be registered in order to sell the Warrants in these states. There may not be a broad market for our Class A common stock, which may cause our Class A common stock to trade at a discount and make it difficult for holders of Warrants to sell the Class A common stock for which the Warrants are exercisable and for which shares of our Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemable at our option. Our Class A common stock for which the Warrants are exercisable trades on the NYSE MKT under the symbol “BRG.” Listing on the NYSE MKT or another national securities exchange does not ensure an actual or active market for our Class A common stock. Historically, our Class A common stock has had a low trading volume. Accordingly, an actual or active market for our Class A common stock may not be maintained, the market for our Class A common stock may not be liquid, the holders of our Class A common stock may be unable to sell their shares of our Class A common stock, and the prices that may be obtained following the sale of our Class A common stock upon the exercise of Warrants or the redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock may not reflect the underlying value of our assets and business. Shares of Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed for shares of our Class A common stock, which rank junior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to dividends and upon liquidation. The holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock may require us to redeem such shares, with the redemption price payable, in our sole discretion, in cash or in equal value of shares of our Class A common stock, based on the volume weighted average price per share of our Class A common stock for the 20 trading days prior to the redemption. We may opt to pay the redemption price in shares of our Class A common stock. The rights of the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock and Series A Preferred Stock rank senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock as to dividends and payments upon liquidation. Unless full cumulative dividends on our shares of Series B Preferred Stock and Series A Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods have been declared and paid (or set apart for payment), we will not declare or pay dividends with respect to any shares of our Class A common stock for any period. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company, the holders of shares of our Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of Stated Value, $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued but unpaid dividends and holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends, prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of shares of our Class A common stock or any other class of our equity securities. We will be able to call shares of Series B Preferred Stock for redemption under certain circumstances without the consent of the holder. We will have the ability to call the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock after two years from the date of original issuance of such shares of Series B Preferred Stock. At that time, we will have the right to redeem, at our option, the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at 100% of the Stated Value per share, plus an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends. Our requirement to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock in the event of a Series B Change of Control may deter a change of control transaction otherwise in the best interests of our stockholders. Upon the occurrence of a Series B Change of Control (as defined below), we will be required to redeem all outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred Stock in whole within 60 days after the first date on which such Series B Change of Control occurred, in cash at a redemption price of $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, to and including the redemption date. The mandatory redemption in connection with a Series B Change of Control feature of the Series B Preferred Stock may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the company, or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our Class A common stock and Series B Preferred Stock with the opportunity for liquidity or the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price or that stockholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests. A “Series B Change of Control” is when, after the initial issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock, any of the following has occurred and is continuing: • a “person” or “group” within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, other than our company, its subsidiaries, and its and their employee benefit plans, has become the direct or indirect “beneficial owner,” as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of our common equity representing more than 50% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our common equity that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, with the exception of the formation of a holding company; • consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of our company or any other transaction or series of transactions pursuant to which our Class A common stock will be converted into cash, securities or other property, (1) other than any such transaction where the shares of our Class A common stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the common stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction, and (2) expressly excluding any such transaction preceded by our company’s acquisition of the capital stock of another company for cash, securities or other property, whether directly or indirectly through one of our subsidiaries, as a precursor to such transactions; or • at least a majority of our board of directors ceases to be constituted of directors who were either a member of our board of directors on February 24, 2016 or who becomes a member of our board of directors subsequent to that date and whose appointment, election or nomination for election by our stockholders was duly approved by a majority of the continuing directors on our board of directors at the time of such approval, either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement issued by our company on behalf of our board of directors in which such individual is named as nominee for director (each, a “Series B Continuing Director”). Upon the sale of any individual property, holders of Series B Preferred Stock do not have a priority over holders of our common stock regarding return of capital. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock do not have a right to receive a return of capital prior to holders of our common stock upon the individual sale of a property. Depending on the price at which such property is sold, it is possible that holders of our common stock will receive a return of capital prior to the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock, provided that any accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid in full to holders of Series B Preferred Stock. It is also possible that holders of common stock will receive additional distributions from the sale of a property (in excess of their capital attributable to the asset sold) before the holders of Series B Preferred Stock receive a return of their capital. We established the offering price for the Units pursuant to negotiations among us and our affiliated dealer manager; as a result, the actual value of your investment may be substantially less than what you pay. The selling price of the Units was determined pursuant to negotiations among us and the dealer manager, which is an affiliate of Bluerock, based upon the following primary factors: the economic conditions in and future prospects for the industry in which we compete; our prospects for future earnings; an assessment of our management; the present state of our development; the prevailing conditions of the equity securities markets at the time of this offering; the present state of the market for non-traded REIT securities; and current market valuations of public companies considered comparable to our company. Because the offering price is not based upon any independent valuation, the offering price is not indicative of the proceeds that you would receive upon liquidation. 36 Your percentage of ownership may become diluted if we issue new shares of stock or other securities, and issuances of additional preferred stock or other securities by us may further subordinate the rights of the holders of our Class A common stock (which you may become upon receipt of redemption payments in shares of our Class A common stock, conversion of any of your shares of Series B Preferred Stock or exercise of any of your Warrants). We may make redemption payments under the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock in shares of our Class A common stock. Although the dollar amounts of such payments are unknown, the number of shares to be issued in connection with such payments may fluctuate based on the price of our Class A common stock. Any sales or perceived sales in the public market of shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon such redemption payments could adversely affect prevailing market prices of shares of our Class A common stock. The issuance of shares of our Class A common stock upon such redemption payments also may have the effect of reducing our net income per share (or increasing our net loss per share). In addition, the existence of Series B Preferred Stock may encourage short selling by market participants because the existence of redemption payments could depress the market price of shares of our Class A common stock. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause us to issue additional shares of our Class A common stock or to raise capital through the issuance of additional preferred stock (including equity or debt securities convertible into preferred stock), options, warrants and other rights, on such terms and for such consideration as our board of directors in its sole discretion may determine. Any such issuance could result in dilution of the equity of our stockholders. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, authorize us to issue common stock or other equity or debt securities (a) to persons from whom we purchase apartment communities, as part or all of the purchase price of the community, or (b) to our Manager in lieu of cash payments required under the management agreement or other contract or obligation. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may determine the value of any common stock or other equity or debt securities issued in consideration of apartment communities or services provided, or to be provided, to us. Our charter also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock in addition to the Series B Preferred Stock offered in this offering (including equity or debt securities convertible into preferred stock) and to set or change the voting, conversion or other rights, preferences, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions and qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of each class or series of shares so issued. If any additional preferred stock is publicly offered, the terms and conditions of such preferred stock (including any equity or debt securities convertible into preferred stock) will be set forth in a registration statement registering the issuance of such preferred stock or equity or debt securities convertible into preferred stock. Because our board of directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of each class or series of preferred stock, it may afford the holders of any series or class of preferred stock preferences, powers, and rights senior to the rights of holders of common stock or the Series B Preferred Stock. If we ever create and issue additional preferred stock or equity or debt securities convertible into preferred stock with a distribution preference over common stock or the Series B Preferred Stock, payment of any distribution preferences of such new outstanding preferred stock would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions on our common stock and our Series B Preferred Stock. Further, holders of preferred stock are normally entitled to receive a preference payment if we liquidate, dissolve, or wind up before any payment is made to the common stockholders, likely reducing the amount common stockholders would otherwise receive upon such an occurrence. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of additional preferred stock may delay, prevent, render more difficult or tend to discourage a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our securities, or the removal of incumbent management. Stockholders have no rights to buy additional shares of stock or other securities if we issue new shares of stock or other securities. We may issue common stock, convertible debt or preferred stock pursuant to a subsequent public offering or a private placement, or to sellers of properties we directly or indirectly acquire instead of, or in addition to, cash consideration. Investors purchasing Units in the offering of our Series B Preferred Stock who do not participate in any future stock issuances will experience dilution in the percentage of the issued and outstanding stock they own. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our investments, you also may experience dilution in the book value and fair market value of, and the amount of distributions paid on, your shares of Series B Preferred Stock and common stock, if any. Our ability to redeem shares of Series B Preferred Stock may be limited by Maryland law. Under Maryland law, a corporation may redeem stock as long as, after giving effect to the redemption, the corporation is able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course (the equity solvency test) and its total assets exceed the sum of its total liabilities plus, unless its charter permits otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the redemption, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights on dissolution are superior to those whose stock is being redeemed (the balance sheet solvency test). If the company is insolvent at any time when a redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock is required to be made, the company may not be able to effect such redemption. 37 Our charter and the articles supplementary establishing the Series B Preferred Stock each contain, and the Warrant Agreement will contain, restrictions upon ownership and transfer of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Warrants, which may impair the ability of holders to acquire the Series B Preferred Stock, the Warrants and the shares of our Class A common stock upon exercise of the Warrants and into which shares of Series B Preferred Stock may be converted, at the company’s option. Our charter and the articles supplementary establishing the Series B Preferred Stock each contain, and the Warrant Agreement will contain, restrictions on ownership and transfer of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Warrants intended to assist us in maintaining our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. For example, to assist us in qualifying as a REIT, the articles supplementary establishing the Series B Preferred Stock prohibit anyone from owning, or being deemed to own by virtue of the applicable constructive ownership provisions of the Code, more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding Series B Preferred Stock. Additionally, the Warrant Agreement will prohibit any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% of our Warrants, and will provide that Warrants may not be exercised to the extent such exercise would result in the holder’s beneficial or constructive ownership of more than 9.8%, in number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common stock, or more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding capital stock. You should consider these ownership limitations prior to a purchase of the Units. There is a risk of delay in our redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock, and we may fail to redeem such securities as required by their terms. Substantially all of the investments we presently hold and the investments we expect to acquire in the future are, and will be, illiquid. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to obtain cash quickly if a need arises. If we are unable to obtain sufficient liquidity prior to a redemption date, we may be forced to engage in a partial redemption or to delay a required redemption. If such a partial redemption or delay were to occur, the market price of shares of the Series B Preferred Stock might be adversely affected, and stockholders entitled to a redemption payment may not receive payment. Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will be subject to inflation risk. Inflation is the reduction in the purchasing power of money resulting from the increase in the price of goods and services. Inflation risk is the risk that the inflation-adjusted, or “real,” value of an investment in preferred stock or the income from that investment will be worth less in the future. As inflation occurs, the real value of the Series B Preferred Stock and dividends payable on such shares declines. Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have no control over changes in our policies and operations. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including with regard to investment objectives, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock have no voting rights. We may have conflicts of interest with our Manager and other affiliates, which could result in investment decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. There are numerous conflicts of interest between our interests and the interests of our Manager, Bluerock and their respective affiliates, including conflicts arising out of allocation of personnel to our activities, allocation of investment opportunities between us and investment vehicles affiliated with Bluerock, purchase or sale of apartment properties, including from or to Bluerock or its affiliates and fee arrangements with our Manager that might induce our Manager to make investment decisions that are not in our best interests. Examples of these potential conflicts of interest include: •Bluerock and Bluerock Special Opportunity + Income Fund II, LLC and Bluerock Special Opportunity + Income Fund III, LLC, which are managed by Bluerock and its affiliates, own a significant portion of our common stock on a fully diluted basis, which could give Bluerock the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval and allow Bluerock to exert significant influence over our company in a manner that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders; •Competition for the time and services of personnel that work for us and our affiliates; •Compensation payable by us to our Manager and its affiliates for their various services, which may not be on market terms and is payable, in some cases, whether or not our stockholders receive distributions; •The possibility that our Manager, its officers and their respective affiliates will face conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, subject to the terms of our investment allocation agreement with our Manager and Bluerock, and that such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, thus potentially limiting our investment opportunities, impairing our ability to make distributions and adversely affecting the trading price of our stock; •The possibility that if we acquire properties from Bluerock or its affiliates, the price may be higher than we would pay if the transaction were the result of arm’s-length negotiations with a third party; •The possibility that our Manager will face conflicts of interest caused by its indirect ownership by Bluerock, some of whose officers are also our officers and two of whom are directors of ours, resulting in actions that may not be in the long-term best interests of our stockholders; •Our Manager has considerable discretion with respect to the terms and timing of our acquisition, disposition and leasing transactions, and the incentive fee payable by us to our Manager is determined based on AFFO, which may create an incentive for our Manager to make investments that are risky or more speculative than would otherwise be in our best interests; 38 •The possibility that we may acquire or merge with our Manager, resulting in an internalization of our management functions; •The possibility that conflicts of interest may arise between BR-NPT Springing Entity, LLC, or NPT, as a holder of OP Units, and our stockholders with respect to a reduction of indebtedness of our operating partnership, which could have adverse tax consequences to certain members of NPT thereby making those transactions less desirable to NPT, which will continue to be managed by a Bluerock affiliate; •The possibility that the competing demands for the time of our Manager, its affiliates and our officers may result in them spending insufficient time on our business, which may result in our missing investment opportunities or having less efficient operations, which could reduce our profitability and result in lower distributions to you; and •Many of our investments have been made through joint venture arrangements with affiliates of our Manager (in addition to unaffiliated third parties), which arrangements were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers, and which could result in a disproportionate benefit to affiliates of our Manager. Any of these and other conflicts of interest between us and our Manager could have a material adverse effect on the returns on our investments, our ability to make distributions to stockholders and the trading price of our stock. The incentive fee we pay our Manager may induce it to make riskier investments, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our stock. The incentive fee payable by us to our Manager is determined based on AFFO, which may create an incentive for our Manager to make investments that are risky or more speculative than would otherwise be in our best interests. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the incentive fee structure may lead our Manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of AFFO at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to increase its incentive fee. Investments with higher yields generally have higher risk of loss than investments with lower yields, and could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns, which could adversely affect the trading price of our stock. We may be obligated to pay our Manager quarterly incentive fees even if we incur a net loss during a particular quarter and our Manager will receive a base management fee regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Our Manager is entitled to a quarterly incentive fee based on our pre-incentive fee AFFO, which will reward our Manager if our quarterly AFFO exceeds an 8% hurdle on our adjusted stockholders’ equity. Our AFFO for a particular quarter will exclude the effect of any unrealized gains, losses or other items during that quarter that do not affect realized net income, even if these adjustments result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Manager an incentive fee for a fiscal quarter even if we incur a net loss for that quarter as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, our Manager is entitled to receive a base management fee based on a percentage of stockholders’ equity, regardless of our performance or its performance in managing our business. Our Manager will also receive reimbursement of expenses and fees incurred directly on our behalf regardless of its or our performance. As a result, even if our Manager does not identify profitable investment opportunities for us, it will still receive material compensation from us. This compensation structure may reduce our Manager’s incentive to devote time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio. If you fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Code as a result of an investment in our stock, you could be subject to liability and penalties. Special considerations apply to the purchase of stock or holding of Warrants by employee benefit plans subject to the fiduciary rules of Title I of ERISA, including pension or profit sharing plans and entities that hold assets of such ERISA Plans, and plans and accounts that are subject to the prohibited transaction rules of Section 4975 of the Code, including IRAs, Keogh Plans, and medical savings accounts (collectively, we refer to ERISA Plans and plans subject to Section 4975 of the Code as “Benefit Plans”). If you are investing the assets of any Benefit Plan, you should satisfy yourself that: •your investment is consistent with your fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Code; • your investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the Benefit Plan, including the Benefit Plan’s investment policy; • your investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA, if applicable, and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code; • your investment will not impair the liquidity of the Benefit Plan; • your investment will not produce UBTI for the Benefit Plan; • you will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements and applicable provisions of the Benefit Plan; and 39 • your investment will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code. Fiduciaries may be held personally liable under ERISA for losses as a result of failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA. In addition, if an investment in our stock or holding of Warrants constitutes a non-exempt prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Code. General Risks Related Ownership of our Securities The cash distributions you receive may be less frequent or lower in amount than you expect. Our directors determine the amount and timing of distributions in their sole discretion. Our directors consider all relevant factors, including the amount of cash available for distribution, capital expenditure and reserve requirements, general operational requirements and the requirements necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. We cannot assure you that we will consistently be able to generate sufficient available cash flow to make distributions, nor can we assure you that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions to you. We may borrow funds, return capital, make taxable distributions of our stock or debt securities, or sell assets to make distributions. We cannot predict the amount of distributions you may receive. We may be unable to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time. Also, because we may receive income from rents at various times during our fiscal year, distributions paid may not reflect our income earned in that particular distribution period. The amount of cash available for distributions will be affected by many factors, such as our ability to acquire properties as offering proceeds become available, the income from those investments and yields on securities of other real estate companies that we invest in, as well as our operating expense levels and many other variables. In addition, to the extent we make distributions to stockholders with sources other than cash flow from operations, the amount of cash that is available for investment in real estate assets will be reduced, which will in turn negatively impact our ability to achieve our investment objectives and limit our ability to make future distributions. If the properties we acquire or invest in do not produce the cash flow that we expect in order to meet our REIT minimum distribution requirement, we may decide to borrow funds to meet the REIT minimum distribution requirements, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. We may decide to borrow funds in order to meet the REIT minimum distribution requirements even if our management believes that the then prevailing market conditions generally are not favorable for such borrowings or that such borrowings would not be advisable in the absence of such tax considerations. If we borrow money to meet the REIT minimum distribution requirement or for other working capital needs, our expenses will increase, our net income will be reduced by the amount of interest we pay on the money we borrow and we will be obligated to repay the money we borrow from future earnings or by selling assets, which may decrease future distributions to stockholders. We intend to use the net proceeds from any offering of our securities to fund future acquisitions and for other general corporate and working capital purposes, but no offering will be conditioned upon the closing of properties in our then-current pipeline and we will have broad discretion to determine alternative uses of proceeds. As described under “Use of Proceeds” in any applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement, we intend to use a portion of the net proceeds from any offering of our securities to fund future acquisitions and for other general corporate and working capital purposes. However, no offering will be conditioned upon the closing of any properties. We will have broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from an offering, and holders of our securities will not have the opportunity as part of their investment decision to assess whether the net proceeds are being used appropriately. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of the net proceeds from an offering, their ultimate use may vary substantially from their currently intended use. Material Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to remain qualified as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for distributions to our stockholders. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2010. We believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner qualifying us as a REIT commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2010 and intend to continue to so operate. However, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. 40 If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our stockholders because: •we would not be able to deduct dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; •we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and •unless we are entitled to relief under certain U.S. federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it would adversely affect the value of our securities. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our capital stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, securities of TRSs and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes. In addition, any TRS in which we own an interest will be subject to regular corporate federal, state and local taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to stockholders. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to U.S. federal corporate income tax. We intend to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. The prohibited transactions tax may subject us to tax on our gain from sales of property and limit our ability to dispose of our properties. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we intend to acquire and hold all of our assets as investments and not for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, the IRS may assert that we are subject to the prohibited transaction tax equal to 100% of net gain upon a disposition of real property. Although a safe harbor to the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction is available, not all of our prior property dispositions qualified for the safe harbor and we cannot assure you that we can comply with the safe harbor in the future or that we have avoided, or will avoid, owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of our properties or may conduct such sales through a TRS, which would be subject to federal and state income taxation. Additionally, in the event that we engage in sales of our properties, any gains from the sales of properties classified as prohibited transactions would be taxed at the 100% prohibited transaction tax rate. 41 The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders. Our ownership of any TRSs will be subject to limitations and our transactions with any TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the Code limits the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The Code also imposes a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our respective investments in any TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations and will structure our transactions with any TRSs on terms that we believe are arm’s-length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% REIT subsidiaries limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax. You may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our common stock. The stock ownership restrictions of the Code for REITs and the 9.8% stock ownership limits in our charter may inhibit market activity in our capital stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code to include specified private foundations, employee benefit plans and trusts, and charitable trusts, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our capital stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, among other purposes, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our capital stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted, prospectively or retroactively, by our board of directors, our charter prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares of capital stock or 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of such thresholds does not satisfy certain conditions designed to ensure that we will not fail to qualify as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT or that compliance is no longer required for REIT qualification. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our stock. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in the U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for certain dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to “qualified dividend income” payable to U.S. stockholders taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our stock. Distributions to tax-exempt investors may be classified as unrelated business taxable income and tax-exempt investors would be required to pay tax on the unrelated business taxable income and to file income tax returns. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our stock nor gain from the sale of stock should generally constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt investor. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. In particular: • under certain circumstances, part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our stock may be treated as unrelated business taxable income if our stock is predominately held by qualified employee pension trusts, such that we are a “pension-held” REIT (which we do not expect to be the case); 42 • part of the income and gain recognized by a tax exempt investor with respect to our stock would constitute unrelated business taxable income if such investor incurs debt in order to acquire the stock; and • part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our stock held by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from federal income taxation under Sections 501(c)(7), (9), (17) or (20) of the Code may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. We encourage you to consult your tax advisor to determine the tax consequences applicable to you if you are a tax-exempt investor. Benefit Plan Risks Under ERISA or the Code If you fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended or the Code as a result of an investment in our stock, you could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. Special considerations apply to the purchase of stock by employee benefit plans subject to the fiduciary rules of title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), including pension or profit sharing plans and entities that hold assets of such plans, which we refer to as ERISA Plans, and plans and accounts that are not subject to ERISA, but are subject to the prohibited transaction rules of Section 4975 of the Code, including IRAs, Keogh Plans, and medical savings accounts. (Collectively, we refer to ERISA Plans and plans subject to Section 4975 of the Code as “Benefit Plans” or “Benefit Plan Investors”). If you are investing the assets of any Benefit Plan, you should consider whether: • your investment will be consistent with your fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Code; • your investment will be made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the Benefit Plan, including the Plan’s investment policy; • your investment will satisfy the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA, if applicable, and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code; • your investment will impair the liquidity of the Benefit Plan; • your investment will produce “unrelated business taxable income” for the Benefit Plan; • you will be able to satisfy plan liquidity requirements as there may be only a limited market to sell or otherwise dispose of our stock; and • your investment will constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, and can subject the fiduciary to claims for damages or for equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Code, the fiduciary or IRA owner who authorized or directed the investment may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. In the case of a prohibited transaction involving an IRA owner, the IRA may be disqualified and all of the assets of the IRA may be deemed distributed and subjected to tax. Benefit Plan Investors should consult with counsel before making an investment in our securities. Plans that are not subject to ERISA or the prohibited transactions of the Code, such as government plans or church plans, may be subject to similar requirements under state law. The fiduciaries of such plans should satisfy themselves that the investment satisfies applicable law. For additional discussion of significant factors that make an investment in our shares risky, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources Section under Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 43 