ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred recurring net losses and anticipate continued net losses as we take steps to expand our business. We have incurred recurring net losses, including net losses of $17,799,351 in 2013, $42,151,493 in 2012, and $1,579,120 in 2011. As a result of ongoing operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $65,525,702 as of December 31, 2013. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures and incur substantial expenses as we continue to develop our business, expand our customer base, enlarge the recycling services we offer, increase the types of materials covered by our recycling services, enhance our technologies, expand our consumer-based content and online community to appeal to and attract a larger base of consumers, implement internal systems and infrastructure, and hire additional personnel. As a result, we expect to continue to incur continued significant losses as we expand our business and may never achieve or maintain profitability. There is no assurance that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the near future or at all. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends on a number of factors, including the pricing of our services, market acceptance of our services, and other factors, some of which are set forth in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we continue to incur substantial losses and are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to discontinue or curtail our business operations; sell assets at unfavorable prices; refinance existing debt obligations on terms unfavorable to us; or merge, consolidate, or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we had a significant indebtedness, consisting of $22,000,000 of convertible notes due July 16, 2016 payable to related parties, and $25,000 of convertible notes exchanged for 23,201 shares of common stock subsequent to year end. We also had an outstanding balance on our line of credit of $2,750,000. Our accounts payable, accrued liabilities, deferred revenue, and capital leases incurred in the ordinary course of business was $26,514,520 as of December 31, 2013. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $17,799,351. If we do not achieve profitability in future periods and do not obtain sufficient capital from alternative sources, we may be unable to pay our obligations in the ordinary course of business or operate our business as a going concern. 10 Table of Contents Our limited operating history may make it difficult for us to forecast accurately our operating results. Our planned expense levels will be based in part on our expectations concerning future revenue, which is difficult to forecast accurately based on our stage of development. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Further, business development and marketing expenses may increase significantly as we expand our operations. To the extent that these expenses precede or are not rapidly followed by a corresponding increase in revenue, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our recycling management business depends to a significant extent upon our largest customer. The success of our recycling management business depends to a significant extent on our relationship with our largest customer. Any material reduction in the business we do with that customer could have a material adverse effect on our company. Our single largest customer accounted for approximately 76% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 89% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. During 2012, we continued to add additional customers, which reduced our reliance on our largest customer by the end of 2013. We expect our reliance on our single largest customer to continue to decrease; however, we can provide no assurance that our reliance upon our single largest customer will diminish. Our contractual arrangements with our largest customers are on a multi-year basis and pertain to the management of only certain forms of materials. Although we have maintained our business relationship with our largest customer during the last six years and we currently service all of that customer’s stores nationally, a decline in our business with that customer could occur at any time. Our failure to maintain our business with our largest customer or any other large customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Although we have long-term commitments from the customers to whom we provide recycling management services, their ability to cancel, reduce, or delay our service offerings to them could reduce our revenue and increase our costs. Customers for our recycling management services, including our three largest customers, do not typically provide us with firm, long-term volume commitments. As a result, our customers will be able to cancel, reduce, or delay our services to them. If our service offerings are cancelled, delayed, or reduced, our revenue would decline. We may lose a substantial portion of our recycling management business if certain materials are classified as “waste.” Some of the municipalities in which we provide services for certain customers, inclusive of our three largest customers, have entered into contractual arrangements with their waste haulage companies that require them to permit those waste haulage companies to remove and dispose of “waste” or “solid waste” within those municipalities. If materials, and in particular organic materials, that we typically obtain and dispose of are considered “waste” or “solid waste,” then our customers may be required to allow the waste haulage companies to remove those materials, and in general either our customers or the municipalities in which they are located must compensate those waste haulage companies based on the metric set forth in the relevant contracts or franchise agreements with those waste haulage companies. If, however, the materials are classified as “raw material,” as “commodities,” or as another designation other than “waste” or “solid waste,” our customers may allow us to obtain the recyclable materials. If it is ultimately found that certain materials constitute “waste” or “solid waste,” a significant portion of our anticipated revenue stream could be lost, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, the growth of our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To expand our recycling management business, we must attract additional customers and expand the services we offer. Although we plan to increase our recycling management business, the ability to expand our overall recycling management business and reduce our dependence on our three largest customers will require us to attract additional customers and expand the services we offer. In addition, we must continue to enhance the commercial value of our Earth911.com website by offering up-to-date news, information, and features in order to attract additional traffic and generate higher advertising and other revenue. Our success depends on our ability to expand, operate, and manage successfully our operations. Our ability to expand successfully will depend upon a number of factors, including the following: • the continued development of our business; • the hiring, training, and retention of additional personnel; • the ability to enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; • the availability of adequate financing; 11 Table of Contents • competitive factors; • general economic and business conditions; • the ability to leverage on the factors expanding the growth of recycling; • the ability to expand our customer base, the types of recyclable materials covered by our services, our network of third-party service providers, our website traffic and the nature of visitors to the Earth911.com website, and our on-product labeling business; • the ability to implement new methods for revenue generation; • the ability to expand our relationships with third parties that are also engaged in activities relating to reducing, reusing, and recycling; and • the ability to develop sponsorship and advertising programs that take advantage of our Earth911.com website audience demographics. We may not be able to enhance our existing recycling, reuse, and proper disposal solutions and develop new solutions in a timely manner. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide efficient and innovative recycling, reuse, and proper disposal services that compare favorably with alternative services on the basis of cost, performance, and customer preferences. Our success in maintaining existing and attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including the following: • innovative development of new services for customers; • maintenance of quality standards; • efficient and cost-effective services; and • utilization of advances in technology. Our inability to enhance our existing services and develop new services on a timely basis could harm our operating results and impede our growth. We rely on independent third-party vendors to provide recycling services to our customers, and any interruptions of these arrangements could increase our costs, disrupt our services, and result in our inability to service our recycling customers, which would adversely affect our business. We outsource the collection, sorting, and processing of recyclable materials to independent third-party vendors. We rely on our vendors to maintain high levels of service. The loss of our relationships with our vendors, or their failure to conduct their services for us as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness, could adversely affect our ability to service our customers in accordance with required service, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, the resulting decline in profitability potential would harm our business. Securing new high-quality and cost-effective vendors is time-consuming and might result in unforeseen operational problems. Our vendors may maintain their own operations or serve other customers, a number of which may provide them with more business than we do. As a result, our vendors could determine to prioritize their capacity for their own operations or for other customers or reduce or eliminate services for us on short notice. If we have any such problems, we may be unable to service our customers in a cost-effective, high-quality, timely manner, which may adversely affect our business and operating results. We may face potential environmental liabilities that may not be covered by our insurance, and changes in insurance costs and availability may also impact our financial results. We may incur liabilities for damage to the environment as a result of the operations of our recycling vendors. While we do not conduct physical haulage, recycling, or disposal operations, we retain third-party service providers on behalf of our customers to carry on those activities. These operations may expose us to liability for environmental damages, in some cases even if we did not directly cause the environmental damage. Further, under our agreements with our customers, we are often required to indemnify our customers from any liabilities or claims arising out of our actions and from any release, threatened release, handling, or storage of hazardous and other materials from our customers’ premises as a result of or connected with our performance of services to our customers. If we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may not cover or may be inadequate to cover such liability. Also, because of the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels, increased retention levels, and increased premiums. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to third parties may adversely affect our revenue, operating income, and cash flows. We manage the processing of a variety of recyclable materials, such as tires, motor oil and oil filters, food waste, meat rendering, cooking oil, grease, and cardboard, for sale to third parties, and we may directly or indirectly receive proceeds from the sale of such recyclable materials. Our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. The resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials can be volatile because of changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may affect the desire for our services and our future revenue, operating income, and cash flows. We may not be competitive in our recycling data services and media business if we fail to enhance our online offerings. The failure to develop and introduce new or enhanced online features, functions, or services could have a material adverse effect on our Internet operations and our recycling data services and media business. To remain competitive, we must continue to • enhance our offerings of news, information, and features; • enhance the ease of use, functionality, and features of the Earth911.com website; • attract additional traffic to our Earth911.com website; and • expand the methods through which we generate advertising and other revenue from our Earth911.com website. These efforts may require us to develop or license increasingly complex technologies. We may fail to develop or introduce new features, functions, and services, and the features, functions, and services that we develop may not result in increased website traffic or revenue. We rely on third-party technology, server, and hardware providers for our recycling data services and media business, and a failure of service by these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely upon third-party data center providers to host our main servers. In the event that these providers experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into relationships with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding alternative service providers on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. We also rely on third-party providers for components of our technology platform, such as hardware and software providers and domain name registrars. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third-party providers could adversely affect our business. We may incur significant expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain recognition of the Earth911.com brand or to generate revenue from our Earth911.com website. Our success in our recycling data services and media business depends in part on our ability to build the brand identity of Earth911.com and increase traffic to our Earth911.com website, our mobile applications, and our social media offerings. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase because of the growing number of Internet websites and the relatively low barriers to entry to provide Internet content. We may incur significant marketing costs in our effort to continue to maintain a strong brand identity among businesses and consumers interested in the environment. Our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we incur excessive expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain recognition of the Earth911.com brand. In order to generate “click-through” revenue from advertising on the Earth911.com website, we need to deliver consumers to advertisers’ websites that result in sales for the advertisers. Our failure to meet advertisers’ expectations by delivering quality traffic may result in our customers ceasing doing business with us or our customers deciding to do business on more limited terms, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may experience downward pressure on our prices if advertisers do not obtain a favorable return on investment from our web search services in comparison to our competitors’ services or other advertising methods. We compete with online publishers and high-traffic websites, as well as traditional media, such as television, radio, and print, for a share of our advertisers’ total advertising expenditures. Our experiencing downward pricing pressure for our services may adversely affect our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Problems with our computer and communication systems may harm our online business. A key element of our strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic across our Earth911.com website to and from third parties that advertise or may advertise on our website. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability, and availability of our systems, transaction-processing systems, and communications infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain advertising customers, as well as to maintain adequate customer service levels. We may experience periodic systems interruptions. Any substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our infrastructure may require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems, and other features. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to project accurately the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our infrastructure or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. We could be subject to liability for information displayed on our Earth911.com website. We may be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright, or trademark infringement or claims relating to the information, or the inaccuracy of information, we publish on our Earth911.com website. We also could be subjected to claims based upon the content that is accessible through links to other websites. The disclaimers we include on our Earth911.com website and our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of claims. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business and divert our managerial and other resources. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights. We can provide no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future services, trademarks, or other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others in the process. There can be no assurance that any of our intellectual property will be adequately safeguarded or that it will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to defend, could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies, and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, if we willfully infringe and also could increase the risk of our patent applications not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If these results are perceived to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, or we may incur significant costs in doing so. The Internet is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new service introductions, and changing customer demands. As a result of the rapidly changing nature of the Internet business, we may be subject to risks of which we are not currently aware. To be successful, we must adapt to our rapidly evolving market by continually enhancing our Earth911.com website and introducing new services to address our users’ changing demands. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our network and infrastructure to meet customer requirements, competitive pressures, or emerging industry standards. We could incur substantial costs if we need to modify our services or infrastructure. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we incur significant costs to adapt, or cannot adapt, to these changes. Government and legal regulations may damage our recycling data services and media business. There are currently few significant laws or regulations directly applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet. However, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as the positioning of sponsored listings on search results pages. The adoption of laws or regulations relating to placement of advertisements or user privacy, defamation, or taxation may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet for services such as ours, which in turn could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. New legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The waste and recycling industries are subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may adversely affect our current or future operations, increase our costs of operations, or require us to make additional capital expenditures. Stringent government regulations at the federal, state, and local level may have substantial impact on our business, our third-party service providers, and our customers. A large number of complex laws, rules, orders, and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation, and related matters. Among other things, these regulations 14 Table of Contents may restrict the business of our third-party service providers’ and our customers’ operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by imposing conditions, such as the following: • limitations on siting and constructing new recycling, waste disposal, transfer, or processing facilities or expanding existing facilities; • limitations, regulations, or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates, and volumes; • limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state materials or certain categories of materials; or • mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste, including requirements to recycle rather than landfill certain disposables. Regulations affecting the siting, design, and closure of landfills could require our third-party service providers or customers to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations, or close landfills temporarily or permanently. Future changes in these regulations may require our third-party service providers or our customers to modify, supplement, or replace equipment or facilities. The costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial, which may reduce the ability or willingness of our customers to use our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely affect the operations of enterprises with which we do business. Additionally, certain states are contemplating air pollution control regulations that are more stringent than existing and proposed federal regulations. Changing environmental regulations could require us or enterprises with which we do business to take any number of actions, including the purchase of emission allowances or installation of additional pollution control technology, and could make some operations less profitable, which could reduce the ability or willingness of our customers to use our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. From time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand their market share. General economic and market-specific conditions may also limit our ability to raise prices. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins, and obtain returns through price increases. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our recycling management services. The waste materials industry as a whole is dominated by large national players, such as Waste Management and Republic Services. To date, these large companies have concentrated on their traditional business of collecting waste for disposal in their landfills rather than recycling. The strategies of these large companies could change at any time, and we could begin to experience substantially increased competition from them. These companies have greater market recognition, larger customer bases, and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possesses and that afford them competitive advantages over us. As a result, they are able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of services similar to those that we provide, to provide comparable services at lower prices, and to introduce new solutions and respond to customer requirements more quickly than we can. Our ability to compete in the recycling services market successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in designing and introducing new solutions; • our ability to predict the evolving needs of our customers and to convince them to use our services; • our ability to meet our customer’s requirements in terms of cost, reliability, speed, and capacity; • the quality of our customer services; and • service introductions by our competitors. Our customers impose substantial requirements relating to the recycling services we provide them. Our customers impose substantial requirements relating to the recycling services we provide them. Our arrangements with our customers generally contain provisions including (a) relatively short contract terms with extensions at the discretion of the customer, (b) requirements that we assume full responsibility for all operational aspects of the services, (c) requirements that we comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and other governmental requirements, (d) requirements that we hold subcontractors to the same standards to which we are subject, (e) prohibitions on price increases without customer consent, (f) designation of service locations, service frequency, and equipment, (g) specifications on procedures for rendering services, (h) notification to customer of any spills, releases, or discharges of materials, (i) requirements that we supply a self-performance audit, (j) requirements that we render monthly and quarterly reports to the customer, (k) requirements that we render monthly invoicing in approved time frames and formats, and (l) requirements that we maintain specified records. We may need additional capital. The development and expansion of our business may require additional funds. In the future, we plan to seek additional equity or debt financing to provide funds for our business and operations. Such financing may not be available or may not be available on satisfactory terms. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our operations. While debt financing will enable us to expand our business more rapidly than we otherwise would be able to do, debt financing increases expenses and we must repay the debt regardless of our operating results. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders. 15 Table of Contents The current global financial crisis, which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain adequate capital resources, whether in the form of equity or debt, to fund our business and growth strategies, may require us to delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our operations, which may adversely affect our financial results and ability to operate as a going concern. We depend on key personnel who would be difficult to replace, and our business will likely be harmed if we lose their services or cannot hire additional qualified personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our current management team and key personnel, including Brian S. Dick, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Dick or one or more of our other key executives or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain “key person” insurance policies on the lives of any of our executive officers or any of our other employees. Except in the case of our President and Chief Executive Officer, with whom we have an Employment Agreement, we employ all of our executive officers and key employees on an at-will basis, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason, and without notice, subject, in certain cases, to severance payment rights. In order to retain valuable employees, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we regard our ability as a public company to grant stock-based compensation as an important component of our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The value to employees of stock-based compensation over time will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract offers from other companies. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate additional skilled management personnel. We plan to continue to expand our work force to continue to enhance our business and operating results. We believe that there is significant competition for qualified personnel with the skills and knowledge that we require. Many of the other companies with which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than those which we have to offer. If we are not able to retain our current key personnel, or attract the necessary qualified key personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives and our ability to pursue our business strategy. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. New employees may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If our recruiting, training, and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed. Our operating results may experience significant fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments, other factors contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: • the cyclicality of the markets we serve; • the timing and size of orders; • the volume of business opportunities relative to our capacity; • service introductions and market acceptance of new service offerings; • timing of expenses in anticipation of future business; • changes in the mix of the services we render; • changes in cost and availability of labor and third-party vendors; • timely delivery of services to customers; • pricing and availability of competitive services; • pressures on reducing selling prices; • the success in serving new markets; • introduction of new technologies into the markets we serve; and • changes in economic conditions. 16 Table of Contents Potential strategic alliances may not achieve their objectives, and the failure to do so could impede our growth. We anticipate that we will enter into strategic alliances. Among other matters, we explore strategic alliances designed to enhance our service offerings, enlarge our customer base, provide valuable know-how, or take advantage of new methods or technologies. Any strategic alliances may not achieve their intended objectives, and parties to our strategic alliances may not perform as contemplated. The failure of these alliances may impede our ability to expand our existing markets or to enter new markets. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. We plan to review strategic opportunities to buy other businesses that would complement our current service offerings, expand the scope of our service offerings, expand the breadth of our markets and sales channels, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue securities that would dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. Our experience in acquiring other businesses is limited. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following: • problems integrating the purchased operations, services, personnel, or technologies with our own; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees and customers of purchased organizations; and • risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in future acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy entails reviewing and potentially reorganizing acquired business operations, corporate infrastructure and systems, and financial controls. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired businesses with our own operations or managing acquired businesses profitably without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results, or financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy and has impacted levels of consumer and commercial spending. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers, such as advertisers, may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously performed services. The members of our board of directors and our executive officers have broad rights. Our business is operated under the control of our board of directors and officers. Stockholders have no right to take part in the control of our affairs or the day-to-day management or operation of the business. The stockholders are permitted to vote only in a limited number of circumstances. While the members of the board of directors are accountable as fiduciaries and are obligated to exercise duties of due care, loyalty, and full disclosure in handling our affairs, the board of directors is entitled to certain limitations of liability and to indemnity by us. Such indemnity and limitation of liability may limit rights that our stockholders would otherwise have to seek redress against the board of directors. Our executive officers are entitled to similar indemnification and limitation of liability. Our stockholders who have questions concerning the duties of the board of directors to our stockholders should consult their own legal counsel. Certain conflicts of interest exist within our organization. Certain members of our board of directors, as holders of our capital stock or lenders to our company, may have conflicts of interest with respect to our company and the stockholders and with respect to the exercise of their voting rights for the shares that they own. 17 Table of Contents The compensation we pay to our executive officers and employees will likely increase. We believe that the compensation we have historically paid to our executive officers and certain of our employees is within the lower quartile of compensation paid by companies similar to us. We may increase the compensation payable to our executive officers and employees, which could include both base compensation and cash or equity bonuses and payouts under severance or change in control arrangements. An increase in compensation and bonuses payable to our executive officers and employees could decrease our net income or increase our net loss. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition to the risk factors described in this section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include the following: • limited trading activity in our common stock; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results; • the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, or our failure to meet such guidance; • the failure of industry or securities analysts to maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates by any industry or securities analysts that follow our company, or our failure to meet such estimates; • various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our strategic partners, or our competitors; • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; • short selling of our common stock by investors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new services or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • regulatory or political developments; • litigation and governmental or regulatory investigations; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; and • general economic, political, and financial market conditions or events. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the price or liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit or paying for settlements or damages. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business. Future sales of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and even the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2013, we had 95,814,565 shares of our common stock outstanding. Many of these shares may be sold in the public market, subject to prior registration or qualification for an exemption from registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144. Shares held by affiliates of our company, which generally include our directors, officers, and certain principal stockholders, are subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144 as described below. In general, under Rule 144 as currently in effect, any person or persons whose shares are aggregated for purposes of Rule 144, who is deemed an affiliate of our company and beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least six months has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell within any three-month period a number of shares that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock and the 18 Table of Contents average weekly trading volume in common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding such sale. Sales by affiliates under Rule 144 also are subject to certain manner-of-sale provisions and notice requirements and to the availability of current public information about us. Rule 701, as currently in effect, permits our employees, officers, directors, and consultants who purchase shares pursuant to a written compensatory plan or contract to resell these shares in reliance upon Rule 144, but without compliance with specific restrictions. Rule 701 provides that affiliates may sell their Rule 701 shares under Rule 144 without complying with the holding period requirement and that non-affiliates may sell their shares in reliance on Rule 144 without complying with the holding period, public information, volume limitation, or notice provisions of Rule 144. A person who is not an affiliate, who has not been an affiliate within three months prior to sale, and who beneficially owns restricted securities with respect to which at least one year has elapsed since the later of the date the shares were acquired from us, or from an affiliate of ours, is entitled to sell such shares under Rule 144 without regard to any of the volume limitations or other requirements described above. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding nonqualified stock options to purchase 4,141,948 shares of common stock under our incentive compensation plan and other option agreements. Upon the exercise of stock options, such shares generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock by us, including pursuant to our equity incentive plan, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We intend to issue additional securities pursuant to our equity incentive plan and may issue equity or convertible securities in the future. To the extent we do so, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities, or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities, or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing stockholders. Our directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own or control a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions could impair a takeover attempt and adversely affect existing stockholders. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Nevada law may have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition of our company, even when this would be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that provide for the following: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors or the chairman of our board of directors; • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II, and Class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to Section 78.438 of the Nevada General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Nevada corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of two years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, other provisions of Nevada law may also discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our articles of incorporation or bylaws or Nevada law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If adequate research coverage is not established or maintained on our company or if any of the analysts who may cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or provide relatively more favorable recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and growth plans discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of shares of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. In connection with our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the transition period ended December 31, 2012, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely manner. The material weakness that we identified was that we did not have adequate personnel to address the reporting requirements of a public company and to fully analyze and account for our transactions. We remediated this material weakness by retaining a new Chief Financial Officer with public company experience in January 2013. Although we believe we have addressed the previously identified material weakness, the measures we have taken may not be effective, and we may not be able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management and our operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports or help prevent fraud. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could prevent us from filing our periodic reports on a timely basis, which could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, harm our business, and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 