Item 1A Risk Factors Competition, Challenges, and Risk Factors Dramatic change continues to occur in all areas of our financial marketplace. Our competition includes regional, national, and local financial institutions, including other banks, mortgage and securities brokers, insurance companies, thrifts, and tax-exempt credit unions. Management continues to develop new products and services in order to expand our footprint beyond the City of Suffolk. We believe that our hometown, friendly service approach to banking and our focus on innovative and competitive products sets us apart from our competition. In management’s opinion, the primary challenges facing the Bank that may impact our performance follow: • Net interest margin compression, which would impact the Bank’s ability to increase revenues due to the volatility of interest rates • Compression of interest rate spreads between interest income on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposit and borrowed funds • A limited ability to predict, with certainty, interest rate changes • Economic conditions that may be less favorable than expected, resulting in deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for loans • Borrowers’ inability to repay loans • A decline in the value of collateral securing loans • A decline in the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio • Regulatory changes, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may adversely affect earnings by requiring additional personnel • Unfavorable economic conditions and a volatile interest rate environment • Adverse changes in the securities market • Employee turnover • Vigorous competition from other financial service providers • Changes in national and local economic conditions which might lead to increased loan charge-offs that could affect net income • Increased unemployment in our trade area, a decline in real estate values, or a sudden change in interest rates leading to a weakened economy, which might affect our earnings and overall financial condition • An inability to attract and retain skilled personnel Lending Activities and Credit Risk Management The Bank’s loan development goal is to maximize earnings through quality loan products that are competitive in rate and term; to assist small- and medium-sized business and consumer borrowers in achieving their financial goals; and to establish long term, meaningful banking relationships. We develop a majority of our lending activities within our trade area, but as a secondary role of the loan function, we also underwrite and partner with other financial institutions to produce commercial real estate loans within and outside our service area. Commercial real estate loans represented 61% of total loans at December 31, 2008. Our loan portfolio is the primary source of our profitability, and appropriate loan underwriting is essential to both our near and long-term success. Our underwriting is intended to classify acceptable risk-mitigating issues that ensure our credit analysis conforms to acceptable lending standards. The primary factors considered in underwriting loans are cash flow and debt service coverage, the value of the collateral securing the loan, a secondary source of repayment, the equity invested in the transaction by the borrower, and the current local and national economic environment. While any lending function involves a certain amount of risk, commercial lending presents a more significant risk because repayment usually depends on revenue generated by principal collateral securing the loan or from other cash flow sources of a business that affect its debt service capacity. 12 Table of Contents Management uses the following universal practices to manage credit risk: • An established credit approval process • A careful underwriting and analysis of borrowers’ loan requests • An analysis of market trends and collateral risks • Constant monitoring of our loan portfolio • An ongoing analysis of customer loans and other deposit relationships • Periodic review of our lending strategy and overall exposure to economic changes SuffolkFirst Bank focuses on relationship lending, which has historically produced solid credit quality, as evidenced by our low charge-off history. The risk of delinquent loans is inherent in banking; therefore, we may experience greater levels of delinquencies than anticipated, and as a result, our earnings and the overall financial condition of the Bank could be affected. We cannot precisely estimate economic conditions or be assured that monitoring procedures and policies will reduce lending risks and that our Allowance for Loan Loss (the “Allowance”) will be adequate. Loan losses may cause insolvency and failure of the Bank, and in such an event, shareholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could have an adverse effect on the profitability of the Bank. A loan loss will reduce the Allowance, and a reduction to the Allowance will be restored by a recovery of the loss. If not recovered, a loan loss will result in an increase to our expense provision for loan losses, thereby reducing earnings, which could have an adverse effect on the market value of our stock. The Board of Directors approves various levels of loan officer loan authority based on the aggregate credit exposure to a borrower and the secured or unsecured status of a proposed loan. A secured loan within a loan officer’s assigned authority may be approved by that officer and reviewed and ratified by the Officers Loan Committee, the Executive Loan Committee, and the Board of Directors. All unsecured loans must be presented to the Officers Loan Committee for approval. The Officers Loan Committee consists of all loan officers together with the Loan Review Officer, with voting members consisting of the President and CEO and the two Executive Vice Presidents. The Executive Loan Committee consists of five permanent members, including the President and CEO. Unsecured loans that exceed $250,000 and secured loans that exceed $500,000 and up to $1,200,000 are approved by the Executive Loan Committee. Unsecured loans over $700,000 and secured loans over $1,200,000, as well as all loans originated and purchased from other financial institutions and all insider loans, are approved by the Board upon recommendation of the Executive Loan Committee. Commercial loans represent the largest category of the Bank’s total loan portfolio of $117,247,295 as of December 31, 2008. Loans for commercial and business purposes at December 31, 2008 represented $87,074,476, or 75.35% of total loans. The remaining loan portfolio, which represented 24.65% of total loans, included various loans for working capital and equipment and loans secured by real estate located within or beyond our immediate market. Commercial loans of $70,342,338 secured by real estate represented 60.81% of total loans and 80.78% of commercial business purpose loans. Other non-real estate business loans of $16,732,138 represented 14.27% of total loans and 19.22% of all commercial loans. Consumer loans of $25,818,111 secured by primary and secondary liens on residential real estate represented 22.02% of total loans and 26.32% of all loans secured by real estate. Management believes the loan portfolio is adequately diversified; however, total loans of $98,095,640 secured by real estate on December 31, 2008 represented 83.67% of total loans and 528.22% of total risk-based capital of $18,571,000. The analysis by management of the historical performance of this segment of the loan portfolio considers this to be an acceptable concentration of credit. 13 Table of Contents Lending Limit At December 31, 2008, the Bank’s legal lending limit for loans to one borrower was $2.53 million. As a part of risk management strategy, we maintain internal “house” limits below our legal lending limit. When we receive customer requests in excess of our legal lending limit, we evaluate the credit risk under our normal guidelines, and approved transactions exceeding our lending limit are sold to and funded by other banks. Churches and Related Accounts Bank management recognizes the large number of established churches located in our market area and is targeting this segment of our market by offering loans for new construction; refinancing and consolidation of current debt; and other purposes, including the financing of purchases of equipment, furniture, and fixtures. We do not anticipate any unique risks associated with these lending practices. In addition, our management focuses on developing personal banking relationships with these church congregations. Consumer Purpose and Residential Real Estate Loans Our consumer loans consist of personal loans for various purposes, including non-real estate secured and unsecured revolving credit. A majority of these loans are secured by liens on various personal assets of the borrower, but they also may be made on an unsecured basis. Real estate loans include consumer loans secured by first or junior liens on real estate. Consumer loans are generally made at fixed interest rates with maturities or amortization schedules generally not to exceed five years; however, consumer loans secured by real estate are made at fixed interest rates and normally contain interest rate adjustment features or are callable in five years with an amortization of 20 to 30 years. The Bank offers a variety of residential real estate loans with loan-to-value ratios not to exceed 90% of the value of the collateral. As of December 31, 2008, we had $25,818,111, or 22.02% of our total outstanding loans, in one- to four- family residential loans secured by first and junior liens. Included in this total is $10,870,069 in home equity loans to individuals. Consumer loans generally are secured by personal property and other personal assets of borrowers which often depreciate rapidly or are vulnerable to damage or loss. In cases where damage or depreciation reduces the value of our collateral below the unpaid balance of a defaulted loan, repossession may not result in repayment of the entire outstanding balance. The resulting deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. In connection with consumer lending in general, the success of our loan collection efforts is highly dependent on the continuing financial stability of our borrowers, so our collection of consumer loans may be more likely to be adversely affected by a borrower’s job loss, illness, personal bankruptcy, or other change in personal circumstances than is the case with other types of loans. Unfunded Commitments In the normal course of business, we may have outstanding commitments for the extension of credit that are not reflected in the financial statements. These commitments represent no more than the normal lending risk that we commit to our borrowers. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding commitments to extend credit of $17,064,037, including letters of credit of $123,550. Management believes these commitments can be funded through normal operations. 14 Table of Contents 