Risk Factors — Mandatory tax distributions may deprive Clearwire Communications of funds that are required in its business”. 43 Table of Contents Applicable accounting rules relating to the exchange features of the Exchangeable Notes may result in increased non-cash interest expense and may cause volatility in our results of operations due to the requirement to adjust any derivative liability associated with the exchange features to fair value each quarter. The exchange features contained within the Exchangeable Notes may be deemed to be an embedded derivative under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, which we refer to as ASC 815. In accordance with ASC 815, an embedded derivative related to the exchange features may require bifurcation from the debt component of the Exchangeable Notes and a separate valuation. If bifurcation is required, we would recognize the embedded derivative as a liability on our balance sheet, measure it at its estimated fair value and recognize changes in its estimated fair value within our results of operations each quarter. We would estimate the fair value of the embedded derivative primarily using the Black-Scholes model and other valuation methodologies. The Black-Scholes model and other valuation methodologies are complex and require significant judgments. Additionally, given the volatility of the Clearwire Corporation stock price and the stock price of other comparable companies, which have a direct impact on our valuation, future changes in the estimated fair value of the exchange features of the Exchangeable Notes may have a material impact on our results of operations. As a result of any required bifurcation of the embedded derivative related to the exchange features of the Exchangeable Notes under ASC 815, the carrying value of the Exchangeable Notes at issuance would be less than the par value of the Exchangeable Notes. The difference between the par value and the carrying value of the Exchangeable Notes as of the date of issuance would be reflected as an increase to our interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the term of the Exchangeable Notes. This discount accretion would result in a significantly higher rate of noncash interest expense within our results of operations over the stated interest rate of the Exchangeable Notes and a corresponding decrease to our net income. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this filing. 