Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Description of Property Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholders matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 8 Financial Statements Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governanc Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matter Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures 3 Table of Contents INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us", "our" or "the Company" refers to Biomedical Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Company's subsidiaries include Biomedical Technology Solutions, Inc., BMTS Properties, Inc., BMTS Leasing, LLC and Healthcare Sales Professionals, Inc. Certain statements contained herein are not statements of historical fact and constitute forward-looking statements. These statements include specifically identified forward-looking statements herein. Examples of forward-looking statements, include: (i) projections of revenues, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure, and other financial items; (ii) statements of plans and objectives of Holdings, or any of its management or Boards of Directors; (iii) statements of future economic performance; and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying those statements. Words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "targeted," "may," "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include: (i) the strength of foreign and U.S. economies in general and the strength of the local economies in which operations are conducted; (ii) the ability of Holdings to finance its planned operations; (iii) the ability of Holdings to hire and retain key personnel, (iv) the ability of Holdings to maintain as well as protect any underlying patents; (v) the ability of Holdings to compete with financially stronger competitors; (vii) the effects of and changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; (vii) inflation, interest rates, market and monetary fluctuations and volatility; (viii) the timely development of and acceptance of new products and services and perceived overall value of these products and services by existing and potential customers; (ix) the dependence of Holdings on its key management personnel; (x) the ability to control expenses; (xiii) the effect of changes in laws and regulations with which Holdings must comply; (xi) the effect of changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies as well as the Financial Accounting Standards Board; (xii) changes in the organization and compensation plans of Holdings; (xiii) the costs and effects of litigation and of unexpected or adverse outcomes in litigation; and (ix) the success of Holdings at managing the above risks. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements made in this prospectus, particularly in view of our early stage of operations, the inclusion of this information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that our objectives and plans will be achieved. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BioMedical Technology Solutions, Inc., ("BMTS") was formed in May 2005 as a Colorado corporation to market and distribute on-site, bio-medical waste treatment technology that had been developed, patented, and initially marketed by Thermal Waste Technologies, Inc., ("TWT"). Accordingly, BMTS acquired the intellectual property rights and existing customer base for the original and patented alternative infectious waste treatment system, the Demolizer®. Through extensive research and development over the past three years, the Demolizer® II System and consumable sharps and red bag collectors have been upgraded to incorporate enhanced process controls, safety features, and integrated quality systems. BMTS is an environmental technology company that markets, sells and rents efficient, environmentally safe, and cost effective, infectious waste treatment systems. BMTS believes that its infectious waste treatment system technology offers solutions for numerous users in the industrialized world as well as in the public health and environmental areas in developing world markets. The Company's principal office is located at 9800 Mt. Pyramid Court, Suite 250, Englewood, Colorado 80112. PRODUCTS The Demolizer® II System sterilizes medical waste through a dry heat cycle. Health care providers replace their present sharps and red bag waste containers with BMTS' Demolizer® collectors, which are used the exact same way. Once the Demolizer® collector is full, instead of placing it in a storage area for pickup by a third party hauler, the collector is placed in the Demolizer® II System for processing. The operator completes a simple key entry sequence and the collector is sterilized over an approximately 2.5 hour cycle. After the completed process, the collector is labeled and disposed of as common trash (solid waste). The contents of the collector are sterile and the sharps have been rendered non-reusable (through the melting of the plastic syringe components). The System has been designed to be odorless, noise-free, and safe, with all emissions demonstrated to be bacteria-free. To date, over 350,000 treatment cycles have been logged on the Demolizer® technology. Key Elements of the Demolizer® Technology The sterilization efficacy of the Demolizer® technology has been validated through numerous trials including studies at Kansas State University and Stanford University. The technology meets or exceeds all published standards for disinfection in the U.S., including recommendations from the U.S. EPA, the CDC, and various state Departments of Health and the Environment. In validation studies, the following organisms have been shown to be inactivated at a minimum level of 6 log10 upon treatment using the Demolizer® technology: Bacillus atropheaus (the USP indicator spore organism for dry heat processes, formerly B. subtilis) 5 Table of Contents Mycobacterium bovis Mycobacterium fortuitum Mycobacterium phlei Staphylococcus aureus (including Methicillin resistant S. aureus) Escherchia coli Candida albicans Psuedomonas aeruginosa The recently upgraded Demolizer® II System incorporates smart systems to ensure that every treatment cycle completes successfully. The upgraded electronic systems continually monitor critical process parameters and only allow process certification labels to print and the door to unlock if all the treatment parameters have been satisfied. Memory devices store process data on-board for each cycle, as well as more comprehensive data on the most recently completed cycles. This allows periodic system performance testing and system diagnostics. In the U.S., the Demolizer® II System is equipped with a modem that contacts the Demolizer® Quality Systems database monthly to download on-board memory. The smart system is flexible and adaptable for international use: • Features support other data management configurations • LED displayed in any language • Runs with either 110V or 220V standard electrical power • CSA and CE rated against worldwide standards • Labels can be printed in any language MARKETS The company's key markets/applications for its products are as follows: 1. Patient Care • Medical Offices • Dental Offices • Urgent Care Centers • Nursing Homes • Assisted Living Facilities 2. Health Care • School health Clinics • Public Health Facilities • First Aid Stations • Home Health Care • Pharmacies 6 Table of Contents • Military • Public Health: Airports, Hospitality, Cruise Ships, Train Stations, and Sports and Entertainment Arenas • Developing World Healthcare 3. Veterinary Care • Veterinary Hospitals • Emergency Veterinary Care • Livestock Medicine • Equine Medicine • Zoos • Sanctuaries SALES / RENTAL STRATEGY The Company has identified several markets for its products which includes the following: • Primary users of sharps and red bad waste such as medical practitioners, dentists, veterinarians and medical facilities providing long term care; • Specialty markets that need to accommodate sharps and red bag disposal use by others as either invited guests such as hotels, sports facilities, government facilities and/or because the facility also treats personnel on the premises such as professional sports players, military personnel and the like. This segment also includes pharmacies with treatment clinics, emergency response (ambulance) companies as well as governmental and quasi governmental organizations and non-profits that make available certain treatments; • Other medical waste disposal companies and/or companies in the waste management business; • Home health care market; The Company currently employs 3 salesmen who continually source leads in several of these identified markets and a President who works with large organizations and facilities on longer term and larger potential applications. Starting from late 2007 to date the Company has sold Demolizers in a wide range of applications including: • Doctor, Dentist and Veterinarian offices and facilities mostly sold thru medical and dental equipment distributors. • Public facilities such as Coors Field in Denver, CO, home to the Colorado Rockies professional major league baseball team for both public disposal in bathrooms and in the clinic. • United States Military bases; • Indian Reservations • Multiple locations with an Ambulance Services Company • Nursing Homes 7 Table of Contents • A Pharmacy in Krogers super market chains. • Large health care organizations. The Company has current agreements with Henry Schein, Patterson Dental and other medical and dental equipment supply distributors for distribution directly to medical and dental offices and facilities. The distribution arrangements are covered by written non-exclusive agreements with the various distributors which provide for varying terms ranging from one to three years with automatic renewals. However, each of the agreements is also terminable be either party upon 90 days' notice. Subject to the Company's cash flow and working capital, we hope to expand our sales and marketing expenses over the next several quarters. These anticipated expenses will include but are not limited to, additional sales and marketing personnel, trade show expenses, marketing literature, etc. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our research and development costs in 2010 and 2009 were $102,961 and $251,357, respectively. Subject to our future cash flows and working capital, we plan to expand our development efforts and anticipate the following product releases in 2011 and 2012: • BMTS has started developing a green version of the Demolizer® technology, the Demolizer® II G. This upgraded model will allow for the complete recycling of the sharps waste load significantly limiting the amount of waste that is eventually deposited in a landfill. • BMTS has started developing a low-cost version of our Demolizer® technology to address the needs of the growing Home Health/Consumer Market. • BMTS also has plans to complete development of an international portable system in order to address third world health care needs in remote locations. MANUFACTURING In the past the final box assembly of the Demolizer® II System was conducted at qualified contract manufacturers. In the first quarter of 2009, we moved manufacturing activities in house.Current management has determined that returning the manufacturing to outside contractors is in the best interest of the company. We currently have an agreement with a qualified contract manufacturer and are negotiating with a second qualified contract manufacturer in a separate area of the US to insure redundancy. We may partner with additional manufacturers, if warranted, both domestic and overseas to ensure price competitiveness, high quality standards and overall production stability. The component level parts required to manufacture the Demolizer generally have lead times of less than four weeks depending upon volumes. 8 Table of Contents INTELLUECTUAL PROPERTY The original technology was patented in the U.S. and Australia in 1999. In 2006, we filed provisional patents on the newly designed collectors and the upgraded system. In 2007, we filed U.S. and international patents, broadly covering the world on both the collectors and the upgraded system. We have also secured trademarks for the Demolizer® and the Gazel. The Company's United States patents and trademarks are listed below: Patent #5,972,291 for Demolizer technology Trademark Registration #3,332,271 for DEMOLIZER II Trademark Registration #3,205,687 for BMTS BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS, INC. Trademark Registration #3,205,688 for BMTS SOLUTION Trademark Registration #3,193,459 for DEMOLIZER Our trademarks and domain names play an important role in expanding the awareness of its products. While we have obtained or applied for registration of its trademarks and registered domain names in an effort to protect them, its efforts may be inadequate to prevent others from claiming violations of their marks and may be inadequate to protect our use of those names as unique. In addition, trademark protection and the uncertainty surrounding the legal protections of domain names may be unenforceable or limited in other countries, and the global nature of the internet makes it impossible to control the ultimate destination of our communications. The regulation of web addresses in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain its web addresses in the future. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing such addresses and the laws protecting trademarks is unsettled. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, domain names and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. We also seek to protect its proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors' rights agreements with its subcontractors, vendors, suppliers, consultants, strategic partners and employees. We cannot provide any assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that it would have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions would not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Some of the additional limitations of intellectual property protection are: • No assurance can be given that any patent will be issued or that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or that any patent, if issued, will be held valid if subsequently challenged. 9 Table of Contents • When we apply for registration of trademarks and registered domain names in an effort to protect them, we cannot be sure of the nature or extent of the protection afforded, since trademark registration does not assure any enforceable rights under many circumstances and there exists significant uncertainty surrounding legal protections of domain names. • There can be no assurance that any steps BMTS takes in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of its proprietary rights or independent third parties developing functionally equivalent products. Despite precautions, unauthorized parties may attempt to engineer, reverse engineer, copy, or obtain and use BMTS's products or other information. • Although management of BMTS believes that BMTS' products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that an infringement claim will not be asserted in the future. The prosecution or defense of any intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive and would place a material burden upon BMTS' working capital. COMPETITION Management of BMTS believes that most low to medium volume biomedical waste generators in the U.S. use either a local or national biomedical waste management services company to handle, transport, and dispose of their medical waste. The cost of this service fluctuates depending upon regulation, competition, and industry consolidation, leaving the customer extremely vulnerable to price increases. As a benchmark for a small to medium size medical office, monthly costs for transport and treatment services can range from $200 to $1,000 per month based on anecdotal information, before adding the cost of sharps containers and other consumables, based on the frequency of pickup and other competitive factors. It has been shown, through cost analysis and information collected from current Demolizer® customers, that the Demolizer® II System delivers significant monthly cost savings compared to third party treatment and hauling companies. BMTS believes that none of the commercially available competitive products meet the needs of low to medium volume generators in a cost effective manner. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES OF BMTS Based upon marketing research conducted by BMTS, we believe the Demolizer® II System is the only on-site, treatment technology that delivers all of the following major user benefits: • Sterilizes and safely disposes of sharps and typical red bag waste; • Completely sterilizes medical waste in a 2-2.5-hour cycle, including the destruction of pathogens, bacteria, spores, and viruses, with the processed collectors disposed of as common trash; • Reduces biomedical waste hauling costs up to 100%; 10 Table of Contents • Meets all EPA, CDC and OSHA standards and is either formally approved or meets the requirements for medical waste treatment and disposal in 48 U.S. states after comprehensive review by 78 governmental agencies at the federal, state and local (city/county) level; • Incorporates a one-of-a-kind, integrated quality control system that meets or exceeds all U.S. requirements for documentation and performance monitoring; • Is easy to use with no special facility requirements; and • Designed to operate in any country by virtue of its CE rating. BMTS' technology also provides a number of environmental advantages, as follows: • Reduces the amount of medical waste incinerated worldwide, helping to reduce the effects of global warming; • Reduces dioxin and other hazardous emissions; • Prevents dangerous reuse of sharps; • Prevents accidental "needle sticks" from improper disposal; and • Eliminates the disposal of bio-hazardous waste in landfills. Further, management of BMTS believes that the Demolizer® technology is the only on-site alternative treatment technology that has passed an EPA microbial survivability test for medical waste incinerator emissions. (All airflow emitted from the unit was demonstrated to be free of bioaerosols). TWT also obtained FDA 510(k) pre-market clearance for commercial distribution of the Demolizer® sharps collectors to clinical and laboratory healthcare settings. BMTS is an FDA inspected facility and in April 2007 and November 2009, BMTS successfully completed an FDA audit of its quality systems. REGULATORY The Demolizer® System is either formally approved or meets the requirements for medical waste treatment and disposal in 48 U.S. states, involving exhaustive review by 78 government agencies at the federal, state, and local (county/city) level. Final approval is pending in the remaining states. The delays are primarily due to pending changes in state rules and limited personnel resources at the state level. Many of these approvals have been in place for nearly eight years. Regulatory and environmental pressures on medical providers and the waste industry have increased substantially, particularly in the area of emissions from incineration operations, leading to the closure of incineration facilities nationwide. Management of BMTS believes there is a significant demand for alternative technologies to address the needs of bio-medical waste generators to meet OSHA regulations, EPA and state laws, and to manage the spread of infectious diseases such as AIDS and Hepatitis-B. 11 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES The Company employs seven individuals on a full-time basis. Three in sales, two in production, and two senior management who are working for one dollar a month plus expenses. We also rely on consulting services for various part-time service functions such as IT, product and design review and marketing, and public relations and accounting. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is experiencing extreme financial challenges that may render it unable to continue operations. * The Company is in dire financial condition, is unable to pay its obligations as they become due, and may be considered insolvent under generally accepted principles of insolvency. However, the Company is in the process of raising additional capital, which there can be no assurance. * The Company has experienced significant losses from operations; and it is unlikely that future performance can or will improve in the near term. * The Company has been unable to meet all e of its 2010 payroll obligations. Additionally in 2009, the Company deferred compensation primarily for its CEO and CFO which resulted in outstanding payroll and payroll tax obligations which it is currently unable to satisfy. The Board of Directors removed the President and CEO in January and the new management has instituted significant cost cutting measures. * The Company is obligated to a third party under a secured promissory note in the principal amount of $200,000 that has an outstanding balance as of December 31, 2010 of principal and interest of $123,855. While we have entered into a settlement agreement providing for periodic payments, if we are unable to meet those commitments, the secured creditor is entitled to a confession of judgment. The secured promissory note is secured by a Second Deed of Trust on property valued on Company's books totaling $615,000. If in the event the property cannot be sold, the third party would have the right to other company assets assuming monthly payments are not made in compliance with the settlement agreement. *The Company had three promissory notes come due December 31, 2010 totaling $168,859. While the Company believes that we will be able to extend the terms and/ or refinance the notes within 90 days, there is no assurance of such action. Due to our history of operating losses our auditors are uncertain that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. Due to our continuing operating losses and negative cash flows from our operations, the reports of our auditors issued in connection with our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 contains an explanatory paragraph indicating that the foregoing matters raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. 12 Table of Contents Current economic conditions and in the global economy generally, including ongoing disruptions in the debt and equity capital markets, may adversely affect our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing. The global economy is currently undergoing a slowdown, which some observers view as a deepening recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. The retail industry has experienced and may continue to experience significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. The current economic downturn has been characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, leading to lowered demand for products and resulting in fewer customers visiting, and customers spending less, which could adversely affect our revenues. In addition, further declines in consumer and commercial spending may drive us and our competitors to reduce pricing, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in debt and equity capital markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries, which may continue to have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, in part because we are dependent upon customer behavior and the impact on consumer spending that the continued market disruption may have. The global stock and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings materially less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. This volatility and illiquidity has negatively affected a broad range of mortgage and asset-backed and other fixed income securities. As a result, the market for fixed income securities has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased defaults. Global equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers exposed to the credit markets particularly affected. These factors and the continuing market disruption have an adverse effect on us, in part because we, like many companies, from time to time may need to raise capital in debt and equity capital markets including in the asset-backed securities markets. In addition, continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively affect our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing, including future securitization transactions, on reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if one or more of the financial institutions that support our future credit facilities fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under the credit facilities. These disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating and the market value of our common stock. If the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt servicing and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The current crisis in the financial markets and contraction of the economy has weakened, and could further weaken, demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. U.S. and global financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, as well as severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. U.S. and global economies have also contracted significantly in recent months and will likely continue to contract for the foreseeable future, reducing the amounts people spend on their businesses. If current economic conditions continue or worsen, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our potential for future success. We were formed in May 2005. To date, we have generated limited revenues and do not expect to generate significant revenues until we sell a larger number of our products. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies like ours in an evolving market, primarily our significant capital requirements. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business will be materially harmed. Although the Demolizer® II system is fully developed and has received regulatory approval across the U.S., we may not be able to demonstrate true market value, and sustain profitability in the future. As we strive to grow our business, we expect to spend significant funds for general corporate purposes, including working capital and marketing, and for research and development. To the extent that our revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, our results of operations and liquidity will be materially and adversely affected. If we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may never achieve profitability. Our Demolizer® II systems may contain component, manufacturing or design defects or may not meet performance criteria established by customers, which could cause us to incur significant repair expenses, harm our customer relationships and industry reputation, and reduce our revenues and profitability. 14 Table of Contents We may experience manufacturing problems with our products. As a result of component, manufacturing or design defects, we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products, incurring significant expenses as a result. In addition, any component, manufacturing or design defect could cause us to lose customers or revenues or damage our customer relationships and industry reputation. The Company's existing products may not be able in the future to meet changes in environmental laws and regulations regarding regulated medical waste. The future of our business will depend on our ability to respond to any future changes in the federal, state and local regulatory environment. Since the Company does not itself generate medical waste and is not itself in control of, nor does it handle, the medical waste but only sells its equipment to its customers, it is not itself currently subject to regulations with respect to the disposal of RMW; however, any change in this regulatory regime in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. We may not be able to deliver our Demolizer® II system's as quickly as customers may require, which could cause us to lose sales and would harm our reputation. We may not be able to deliver our Demolizer® II systems to our customers at the times they require. Manufacturing delays and interruptions can occur for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • the failure of a supplier to deliver needed components on a timely basis or with acceptable quality; • lack of sufficient capacity; • equipment failures; • manufacturing personnel shortages; • labor disputes; • transportation disruptions; • changes in import/export regulations; • natural disasters; • acts of terrorism; and • political instability. If we fail to deliver products in a timely fashion, our reputation may be harmed; existing orders may be jeopardized; and we may lose potential future sales. We recently set up a contract manufacturer to begin to transferred our manufacturing of the Demolizer® II from in house to outside contract manufacturers. In the past we relied upon contract manufacturers for the manufacture of the Demolizer® II. In 2009 Q1, we transferred manufacturing in house and are going to transfer manufacturing back to contract manufacturers. We could encounter delays and difficulties in the manufacturing of our products as a result of the aforementioned transition and such could substantially harm our product marketing efforts. There are limited sources of supply for some key Demolizer® II system components. 15 Table of Contents Business disruptions, financial difficulties of the manufacturers or suppliers of these components, or raw material shortages could increase the cost of our goods sold or reduce the availability of these components. To date, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of product. If sales accelerate, we may experience a rapid and substantial increase in our need for units. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of required units, we could experience significant customer dissatisfaction, which could result in the loss of orders and customers, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the cost of units increases, we may not be able to pass on price increases to our customers if we are to remain competitively priced. This would reduce profit, which in turn would reduce the value of your investment. Our failure to obtain additional financing, if needed, would adversely affect our business results. We will require additional financing to fund ongoing operations if our sales and revenue growth are insufficient to meet our operating costs. Financing for all of our activities to date has been provided by private sales of our securities and the merger with CET. Additional financing may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, shareholders may incur dilution, and this dilution may be substantial. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, scale back operations or otherwise limit our marketing and distribution efforts and/or the manufacture or sale of Demolizer® II systems, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and reduce the value of your investment. We rely heavily upon independent distributors to market our product. Those distributors also market other medical and health care products, including other products that may be competitive with ours. As a result, distributors over whom we exercise little control can significantly influence the degree to which consumers buy our products. We distribute our products through a network of independent distributors for resale to ultimate end users. Accordingly, we are dependent upon these distributors to sell our product and to assist us in creating demand for, and promoting market acceptance of our products. There can be no assurance that our distributors will devote the resources necessary to provide effective sales and promotional support to us. Because our distributors also distribute other products, it is imperative that we undertake adequate efforts to train and motivate our distributors to promote our products over others. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this effort. A disruption of our distributors or the termination by any major distributor could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. While we have formal written distribution agreements with our distributors; most distribution arrangements can be terminated by the distributor on 90 days' notice. A down-turn in the performance or loss of a single distributor can have a material adverse impact on sales and, as a result, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents To the extent we engage in marketing and distribution activities outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, trade restrictions and political, economic and social instability. To the extent we market and distribute the Demolizer® II in foreign markets, we will be subject to various risks associated with conducting business abroad. A foreign government may require us to obtain export licenses or may impose trade barriers or tariffs that could limit our ability to build our international presence. Our operations in some markets also may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in foreign countries, including terrorism. To the extent that we attempt to expand our sales efforts in international markets, we may also face difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles and problems with collecting accounts receivable and increased risks of piracy and limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. We currently do not have any transactions denominated in foreign currencies. In the future, transactions denominated in foreign currencies may not be hedged and therefore will be subject to the risk of changes in exchange rates. If we are unable to adequately address the risks of doing business abroad and build an international presence, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. There may be claims made against us for personal injury and business losses which may subject us to litigation and related costs. We anticipate that the Demolizer® II will be utilized in a variety of industrial and other settings and will be used to handle materials resulting from the generation of biomedical waste. The equipment will, therefore, be subject to risks of breakdowns and malfunctions, and it is possible that claims for personal injury and business losses arising out of these breakdowns and malfunctions will be made against us. While we have obtained product liability insurance, our insurance may be insufficient to provide coverage against all claims or for claims made for amounts substantially in excess of applicable policy limits. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with government regulations will severely limit our sales opportunities and future revenues. We and our customers may be required to comply with a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental controls, including without limitation, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, which may require our prospective working partners or our customers to obtain permits or approvals to utilize the Demolizer® II and related equipment on job sites. Since we intend to market the Demolizer® II internationally, we will be required to comply with foreign laws and regulations and, when applicable, obtain permits in other countries. We cannot be certain that required permits and approvals will be obtained or that new environmental regulations will not be enacted or that if they are, we and our customers can meet stricter standards of operation or obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Furthermore, particularly in the environmental remediation market, we may be required to conduct performance and operating studies to assure government agencies that the Demolizer® II and its by-products are not environmental risks. 17 Table of Contents There is no assurance that these studies will not be more costly or time-consuming than anticipated or will produce acceptable conclusions. Failure to obtain operating permits, or otherwise to comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements, could affect our ability to market and sell our Demolizer® II and could substantially reduce the market price of our common stock. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property. Our success and the competitiveness of our products are heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology and our ability to protect our current and future technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because such laws provide only limited protection. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to duplicate aspects of our technologies and manufacturing processes or the current or future products or technologies of our business and manufacturing processes or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. This could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary rights is difficult, and some international laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation periodically may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation is costly and may not be successful. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology or manufacturing processes could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. While we have one patent and several patent applications pending, there is no assurance that any existing patents will not be challenged or patent applications filed by us in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Furthermore, there is no assurance as to the breadth and degree of protection any issued patents might afford our intellectual property. Disputes may arise between us and others as to the scope and validity of these or other patents. Any defense of the patents could prove costly and time consuming and there can be no assurance that we will be in a position, or will deem it advisable, to carry on such a defense. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents are issued, and the publication of discoveries in the scientific literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we will be the first creator of future inventions for which we seek patents or the first to file patent applications for any of our inventions. Patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures which differ from those of the United States. We cannot be certain that: • patents will be issued from future applications; • any future patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; • foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property; or • others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents which may be issued to us. 18 Table of Contents Generally, we enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure of intellectual property agreements with our employees, consultants and many of our vendors and distributors, and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar information independently. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult. The laws of other countries may afford little or no effective protection of our technology. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology, which may cause us to lose customers and revenue opportunities. In addition, pursuing persons who might misappropriate our intellectual property could be costly and divert the attention of our management from the operation of our business. Intellectual property infringement claims by third parties could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Other individuals and/or entities may have filed applications for, or may have been issued, patents and may obtain additional patents and other proprietary rights to technology used by us or otherwise potentially useful or necessary to us. The scope and validity of such patents, if any, the extent to which we may wish or need to acquire the rights to such patents, and the cost and availability of such rights are presently unknown. We may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, including third party rights in patents that have not yet been issued. If we do infringe, the holder of the patent may seek to cause us to cease using the technology subject to the patent, or require us to enter into a license or other similar agreement and pay for our use of the intellectual property. In either case, such event may have a material negative impact on our performance. Also, since we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, there is no assurance that others may not acquire or independently develop the same or similar technology. We do not believe that any of our technologies or products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. Nevertheless, third parties may claim infringement with respect to our current or future technologies or products or products manufactured by others and incorporating our technologies. Responding to any such claims, whether or not they are found to have merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause development delays, require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, or require us to cease using the technology that is the intellectual property of a third party. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, infringement claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are dependent on key personnel and our business would be disrupted if we are unable to retain and expand our management team. Our success is highly dependent on the continued ability to attract and retain, qualified engineering, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and senior management personnel. The loss of any key employees or principal members of management could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Further, if we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as needed, we may not be able to adequately manage and implement plans for our expansion and growth. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 