Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on contracts with U.S. government agencies for substantially all of our revenue. If our relationships with such agencies are harmed, our future revenue and operating profits would decline. The U.S. government is our primary client, with revenue from contracts and task orders, either as a prime or a subcontractor, with U.S. government agencies accounting for 98% of our revenue for fiscal 2012. Our belief is that the successful future growth of our business will continue to depend primarily on our ability to be awarded work under U.S. government contracts, as we expect this will be the primary source of all of our revenue in the foreseeable future. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with the U.S. government generally or any U.S. government agency that we serve would cause our revenue to decline. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationship with U.S. government agencies are our performance on contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and the strength of our relationships with client personnel. In addition, the mishandling or the perception of mishandling of sensitive information, such as our failure to maintain the confidentiality of the existence of our business relationships with certain of our clients, could harm our relationship with U.S. government agencies. If a client is not satisfied with the quality or type of work performed by us, a subcontractor, or other third parties who provide services or products for a specific project, the client might seek to terminate the contract prior to its scheduled expiration date, provide a negative assessment of our performance to government-maintained contractor past-performance data repositories, fail to award us additional business under existing contracts or otherwise, and direct future business to our competitors. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs to address any such 21 Table of Contents situation and the profitability of that work might be impaired. To the extent that our performance does not meet client expectations, or our reputation or relationships with any of our clients is impaired, our revenue and operating profits could materially decline. U.S. government spending and mission priorities could change in a manner that adversely affects our future revenue and limits our growth prospects. Our business depends upon continued U.S. government expenditures on defense, intelligence, and civil programs for which we provide support. These expenditures have not remained constant over time, have been reduced in certain periods and, recently, have been affected by the U.S. government’s efforts to improve efficiency and reduce costs affecting federal government programs generally. Our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be materially harmed, among other causes, by the following: • budgetary constraints affecting U.S. government spending generally, or specific agencies in particular, and changes in available funding; • a shift in expenditures away from agencies or programs that we support; • reduced U.S. government outsourcing of functions that we are currently contracted to provide, including as a result of increased insourcing; • further efforts to improve efficiency and reduce costs affecting federal government programs; • changes in U.S. government programs that we support or related requirements; • U.S. government shutdowns due to a failure by elected officials to fund the government (such as that which was threatened in March of 2011 or which occurred during government fiscal year 1996) or weather-related closures in the Washington, DC area (such as that which occurred in February 2010) and other potential delays in the appropriations process; • U.S. government agencies awarding contracts on a technically acceptable/lowest cost basis in order to reduce expenditures; • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices; • an inability by the U.S. government to fund its operations as a result of a failure to increase the federal government’s debt ceiling, a credit downgrade of U.S. government obligations or for any other reason; and • changes in the political climate and general economic conditions, including a slowdown of the economy or unstable economic conditions and responses to conditions, such as emergency spending, that reduce funds available for other government priorities. The U.S. government budget deficits, the national debt, and the prevailing economic condition, and actions taken to address them, could negatively affect the U.S. government expenditures on defense, intelligence, and civil programs for which we provide support. The Department of Defense is one of our significant clients and cost cutting, including through consolidation and elimination of duplicative organizations and insourcing, has become a major initiative for the Department of Defense. In particular, in March 2011, the Secretary of Defense announced that he has directed the Department of Defense to reduce funding for service support contractors by 10% per year for the next three years. Furthermore, the Budget Control Act of 2011 could impose an estimated $500-$600 billion in automatic federal defense spending cuts between 2013 and 2021 unless the federal government delays or changes this legislation. A reduction in the amount of services that we are contracted to provide to the Department of Defense as a result of any of these related initiatives, legislation or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These or other factors could cause our defense, intelligence, or civil clients to decrease the number of new contracts awarded generally and fail to award us new contracts, reduce their purchases under our existing contracts, exercise their right to terminate our contracts, or not exercise options to renew our contracts, any of which could cause a material decline in our revenue. 22 Table of Contents We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations, some of which are highly complex, and our failure to comply could result in fines or civil or criminal penalties or suspension or debarment by the U.S. government that could result in our inability to continue to work on or receive U.S. government contracts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. As a U.S. government contractor, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts, which affect how we do business with our clients. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to civil or criminal penalties, termination of our U.S. government contracts, and/or suspension or debarment from contracting with federal agencies. Some significant laws and regulations that affect us include: • FAR, and agency regulations supplemental to the FAR, which regulate the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts. For example, FAR 52.203-13 requires contractors to establish a Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, implement a comprehensive internal control system, and report to the government when the contractor has credible evidence that a principal, employee, agent, or subcontractor, in connection with a government contract, has violated certain federal criminal laws, violated the civil False Claims Act, or has received a significant overpayment; • the False Claims Act and False Statements Act, which impose civil and criminal liability for presenting false or fraudulent claims for payments or reimbursement, and making false statements to the U.S. government, respectively; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with the negotiation of a contract, modification, or task order; • post government employment laws and regulations, which restrict the ability of a contractor to recruit, hire, and deploy former employees of the U.S. government; • laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services, and technical data, including requirements regarding any applicable licensing of our employees involved in such work; and • the FAR Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts and require consistency of accounting practices over time. In addition, the U.S. government adopts new laws, rules, and regulations from time to time that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our performance under our U.S. government contracts and our compliance with the terms of those contracts and applicable laws and regulations are subject to periodic audit, review, and investigation by various agencies of the U.S. government and the current environment has led to increased regulatory scrutiny and sanctions for non-compliance by such agencies generally. In addition, from time to time we report potential or actual violations of applicable laws and regulations to the relevant governmental authority. Any such report of a potential or actual violation of applicable laws or regulations could lead to an audit, review, or investigation by the relevant agencies of the U.S. government. If such an audit, review, or investigation uncovers a violation of a law or regulation, or improper or illegal activities relating to our U.S. government contracts, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, withholding of payments, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or debarment from contracting with U.S. government agencies. Such penalties and sanctions are not uncommon in the industry and there is inherent uncertainty as to the outcome of any particular audit, review, or investigation. If we incur a material penalty or administrative sanction or otherwise suffer harm to our reputation, our profitability, cash position, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Further, if the U.S. government were to initiate suspension or debarment proceedings against us or if we are indicted for or convicted of illegal activities relating to our U.S. government contracts following an audit, review, 23 Table of Contents or investigation, we may lose our ability to be awarded contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts for a period of time which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We could also suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which would impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. For example, on February 6, 2012, our San Antonio office was proposed for debarment by the U.S. Air Force and listed on the government’s Excluded Parties List System due to the actions of one of our former employees who inappropriately retained and shared sensitive information with other professionals in that office. The U.S. Air Force has since lifted the proposed debarment and removed our San Antonio office from the government’s Excluded Parties List System. See “Item 1. Business — Regulation” for additional information. We derive a majority of our revenue from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively in the process or if there are delays caused by our competitors protesting major contract awards received by us. We derive a majority of our revenue from U.S. government contracts awarded through competitive bidding processes. We do not expect this to change for the foreseeable future. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The competitive bidding process involves risk and significant costs to businesses operating in this environment, including: • the necessity to expend resources, make financial commitments (such as procuring leased premises) and bid on engagements in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen difficulties in execution, cost overruns and, in the case of an unsuccessful competition, the loss of committed costs; • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort spent to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; • the ability to accurately estimate the resources and costs that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; and • any opportunity cost of bidding and winning other contracts we might otherwise pursue. In circumstances where contracts are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire, we still may not be provided the opportunity to bid on those contracts if the U.S. government determines to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for the duration of those contracts to the extent that there is no additional demand for such services. An inability to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The current competitive environment has resulted in an increase in the number of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders. It can take many months for the relevant U.S. government agency to resolve protests by one or more of our competitors of contract awards we receive. The resulting delay in the start up and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 24 Table of Contents We may lose GSA schedules or our position as a prime contractor on one or more of our GWACs. We believe that one of the key elements of our success is our position as the holder of 11 GSA schedules, and as a prime contractor under two GWACs as of March 31, 2012. Our ability to maintain our existing business and win new business depends on our ability to maintain our position as a GSA schedule contractor and a prime contractor on GWACs. The loss of any of our GSA schedules or our prime contractor position on any of our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win new business and our operating results. In addition, if the U.S. government elects to use a contract vehicle that we do not hold, we will not be able to compete for work under that contract vehicle as a prime contractor. We may earn less revenue than projected, or no revenue, under certain of our contracts. Many of our contracts with our clients are ID/IQ contracts, including GSA schedules and GWACs. ID/IQ contracts provide for the issuance by the client of orders for services or products under the contract, and often contain multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling amounts, which allow but do not commit the U.S. government to purchase products and services from contractors. Our ability to generate revenue under each of these types of contracts depends upon our ability to be awarded task orders for specific services by the client. ID/IQ contracts may be awarded to one contractor (single award) or several contractors (multiple award). Multiple contractors must compete under multiple award ID/IQ contracts for task orders to provide particular services, and contractors earn revenue only to the extent that they successfully compete for these task orders. In fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011, and fiscal 2010, our revenue under our GSA schedules and GWACs accounted for 20%, 20%, and 23%, respectively, of our total revenue. A failure to be awarded task orders under such contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings and profitability may vary based on the mix of our contracts and may be adversely affected by our failure to accurately estimate or otherwise recover the expenses, time, and resources for our contracts. We enter into three general types of U.S. government contracts for our services: cost-reimbursable, time-and-materials, and fixed-price. For fiscal 2012, we derived 54% of our revenue from cost-reimbursable contracts, 31% from time-and-materials contracts and 15% from fixed-price contracts. Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract and adversely affect our operating results. Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs up to a ceiling and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our actual costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs. In particular, there is increasing focus by the U.S. government on the extent to which government contractors, including us, are able to receive reimbursement for employee compensation. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain allowable expenses. We assume financial risk on time-and-materials contracts because our costs of performance may exceed these negotiated hourly rates. Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a pre-determined price. Compared to time-and-materials and cost-reimbursable contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities because we receive the benefits of any cost savings, but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of any cost overruns. The U.S. government has generally indicated that it intends to increase its use of fixed price contract procurements. In addition, the Department of Defense adopted purchasing guidelines that mark a shift towards fixed-priced procurement contracts under certain competitive conditions. Because we assume the risk for cost overruns and contingent losses on fixed-price contracts, an increase in the percentage of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix would increase our risk of suffering losses. 25 Table of Contents Additionally, our profits could be adversely affected if our costs under any of these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract. We have recorded provisions in our consolidated financial statements for losses on our contracts, as required under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, but our contract loss provisions may not be adequate to cover all actual losses that we may incur in the future. Our professional reputation is critical to our business, and any harm to our reputation could decrease the amount of business the U.S. government does with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and growth prospects. We depend on our contracts with U.S. government agencies for substantially all of our revenue and if our reputation or relationships with these agencies were harmed, our future revenue and growth prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our reputation and relationship with the U.S. government is a key factor in maintaining and growing revenue under contracts with the U.S. government. Negative press reports regarding poor contract performance, employee misconduct, information security breaches, or other aspects of our business, or regarding government contractors generally, could harm our reputation. If our reputation with these agencies is negatively affected, or if we are suspended or debarred from contracting with government agencies for any reason, such actions would decrease the amount of business that the U.S. government does with us, which would have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and growth prospects. We use estimates in recognizing revenue and if we make changes to estimates used in recognizing revenue, our profitability may be adversely affected. Revenue from our fixed-price contracts is primarily recognized using the percentage-of-completion method with progress toward completion of a particular contract based on actual costs incurred relative to total estimated costs to be incurred over the life of the contract. Revenue from our cost-plus-award-fee contracts are based on our estimation of award fees over the life of the contract. Estimating costs at completion and award fees on our long-term contracts is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained, and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. In the event updated estimates indicate that we will experience a loss on the contract, we recognize the estimated loss at the time it is determined. Additional information may subsequently indicate that the loss is more or less than initially recognized, which requires further adjustments in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates could result in adjustments that could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. We may not realize the full value of our backlog, which may result in lower than expected revenue. As of March 31, 2012, our total backlog was $10.8 billion, of which $2.9 billion was funded. We define backlog to include the following three components: • Funded Backlog. Funded backlog represents the revenue value of orders for services under existing contracts for which funding is appropriated or otherwise authorized, less revenue previously recognized on these contracts. • Unfunded Backlog. Unfunded backlog represents the revenue value of orders for services under existing contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized. • Priced Options. Priced contract options represent 100% of the revenue value of all future contract option periods under existing contracts that may be exercised at our clients’ option and for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized. 26 Table of Contents Backlog does not include any task orders under ID/IQ contracts, including GWACs and GSA schedules, except to the extent that task orders have been awarded to us under those contracts. We historically have not realized all of the revenue included in our total backlog, and we may not realize all of the revenue included in our total backlog in the future. There is a somewhat higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog and priced options. In addition, there can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period. This is because the actual receipt, timing, and amount of revenue under contracts included in backlog are subject to various contingencies, including congressional appropriations, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, delays in the completion of the U.S. government’s budgeting process and the use of continuing resolutions could adversely affect our ability to timely recognize revenue under our contracts included in backlog. Furthermore, the actual receipt of revenue from contracts included in backlog may never occur or may be delayed because: a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled; a contract’s funding or scope could be reduced, modified, delayed, or terminated early, including as a result of a lack of appropriated funds or as a result of cost cutting initiatives and other efforts to reduce U.S. government spending such as the initiatives announced by the Secretary of Defense in March 2011 and the automatic federal defense spending cuts required by the Budget Control Act of 2011; in the case of funded backlog, the period of performance for the contract has expired; in the case of unfunded backlog, funding may not be available; or, in the case of priced options, our clients may not exercise their options. In addition, consulting staff headcount growth is the primary means by which we are able to recognize revenue growth. Any inability to hire additional appropriately qualified personnel or failure to timely and effectively deploy such additional personnel against funded backlog could negatively affect our ability to grow our revenue. Furthermore, even if our backlog results in revenue, the contracts may not be profitable. We may fail to attract, train and retain skilled and qualified employees with appropriate security clearances, which may impair our ability to generate revenue, effectively serve our clients, and execute our growth strategy. Our business depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly qualified individuals who may have advanced degrees in areas such as information technology as well as appropriate security clearances. We compete for such qualified personnel with other U.S. government contractors, the U.S. government, and private industry, and such competition is intense. Personnel with the requisites skills, qualifications, or security clearance may be in short supply or generally unavailable. In addition, our ability to recruit, hire, and internally deploy former employees of the U.S. government is subject to complex laws and regulations, which may serve as an impediment to our ability to attract such former employees, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations may expose us and our employees to civil or criminal penalties. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or fail to deploy such employees or obtain their appropriate security clearances in a timely manner, our ability to maintain and grow our business and to effectively serve our clients could be limited and our future revenue and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, to the extent that we are unable to make necessary permanent hires to appropriately serve our clients, we could be required to engage larger numbers of contracted personnel, which could reduce our profit margins. If we are able to attract sufficient numbers of qualified new hires, training and retention costs may place significant demands on our resources. In addition, to the extent that we experience attrition in our employee ranks, we may realize only a limited or no return on such invested resources, and we would have to expend additional resources to hire and train replacement employees. The loss of services of key personnel could also impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts and to retain such contracts, as well as our ability to win new business. 27 Table of Contents We may fail to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances which may adversely affect our ability to perform on certain contracts. Many U.S. government programs require contractors to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees are unable to obtain or retain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business, and our existing clients could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we are not able to obtain and maintain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts, as well as lose existing contracts, which may adversely affect our operating results and inhibit the execution of our growth strategy. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to timely and effectively utilize our employees. The cost of providing our services, including the degree to which our employees are utilized, affects our profitability. The degree to which we are able to utilize our employees is affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire, assimilate, and deploy new employees; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and to maintain and deploy headcount that is aligned with demand, including employees with the right mix of skills and experience to support our projects; • our employees’ inability to obtain or retain necessary security clearances; • our ability to manage attrition; and • our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, and other non-chargeable activities. If our employees are under-utilized, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. Additionally, if our employees are over-utilized, it could have a material adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition, which would in turn have a material adverse impact on our business. We may lose one or more members of our senior management team or fail to develop new leaders, which could cause the disruption of the management of our business. We believe that the future success of our business and our ability to operate profitably depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management and the continued development of new members of senior management. We rely on our senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that many members of our senior management team have established and maintain with our clients are important to our business and our ability to identify new business opportunities. We do not have any employment agreements providing for a specific term of employment with any member of our senior management. The loss of any member of our senior management or our failure to continue to develop new members could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts, to maintain good client relations, and to otherwise manage our business. Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our ability to conduct business with the U.S. government. We are exposed to the risk that employee or subcontractor fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees or subcontractors could include intentional or unintentional failures to comply with U.S. government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, or falsifying time records. Employee or subcontractor misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified 28 Table of Contents information or the failure to comply with legislation or regulations regarding the protection of sensitive or classified information. It is not always possible to deter employee or subcontractor misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could materially harm our business. As a result of such misconduct, our employees could lose their security clearance and we could face fines and civil or criminal penalties, loss of facility clearance accreditation, and suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government, as well as reputational harm, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See, for example, “Item 1. Business — Regulation” for a description of the recently resolved debarment proceedings against our San Antonio office. We face intense competition from many competitors, which could cause us to lose business, lower prices and suffer employee departures. Our business operates in a highly competitive industry, and we generally compete with a wide variety of U.S. government contractors, including large defense contractors, diversified service providers, and small businesses. We also face competition from entrants into our markets including companies divested by large prime contractors in response to increasing scrutiny of organizational conflicts of interest issues and from market participants formed by or benefiting from industry consolidation. Some of these companies possess greater financial resources and larger technical staffs, and others have smaller and more specialized staffs. These competitors could, among other things: • divert sales from us by winning very large-scale government contracts, a risk that is enhanced by the recent trend in government procurement practices to bundle services into larger contracts; • force us to charge lower prices in order to win or maintain contracts; • seek to hire our employees; or • adversely affect our relationships with current clients, including our ability to continue to win competitively awarded engagements where we are the incumbent. If we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices or suffer employee departures, our revenue and our operating profits could decline. In addition, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time to time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor to us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it could divert sales from us and could force us to charge lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Our failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors, or the failure of contractors with which we have entered into a sub- or prime contractor relationship to meet their obligations to us or our clients, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Maintaining strong relationships with other U.S. government contractors, who may also be our competitors, is important to our business and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. To the extent that we fail to maintain good relations with our subcontractors or other prime contractors due to either perceived or actual performance failures or other conduct, they may refuse to hire us as a subcontractor in the future or to work with us as our subcontractor. In addition, other contractors may choose not to use us as a subcontractor or choose not to perform work for us as a subcontractor for any number of additional reasons, including because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors or because they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business. As a prime contractor, we often rely on other companies to perform some of the work under a contract, and we expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for portions of our delivery of services 29 Table of Contents and revenue in the foreseeable future. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our operating results and future growth prospects could be impaired. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, client concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, or our hiring of a subcontractor’s personnel. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. Material losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a client terminating a contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. We estimate that revenue derived from contracts under which we acted as a subcontractor to other companies represented 10% of our revenue for fiscal 2012. As a subcontractor, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish our reputation, even when we perform as required, and could cause other contractors to choose not to hire us as a subcontractor in the future. In addition, if the U.S. government terminates or reduces other prime contractors’ programs or does not award them new contracts, subcontracting opportunities available to us could decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes could result in materially adverse monetary damages or injunctive relief and damage our reputation. We are subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of litigation or other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. For example, over time, we have had disputes with current and former employees involving alleged violations of civil rights, wage and hour, and worker’s compensation laws. Further, as more fully described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” six former officers and stockholders who had departed the firm prior to the acquisition have filed suits against our company and certain of our current and former directors and officers. Each of the suits arises out of the acquisition and alleges that the former stockholders are entitled to certain payments that they would have received if they had held their stock at the time of acquisition. The results of litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in materially adverse monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. The litigation and other claims described under the “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” are subject to future developments and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. Systems that we develop, integrate, or maintain could experience security breaches which may damage our reputation with our clients and hinder future contract win rates. Many of the systems we develop, integrate, or maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for U.S. government clients. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work or any liability resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install, or maintain could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Internal system or service failures, including as a result of cyber or other security threats, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services to our clients, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We create, implement, and maintain information technology and engineering systems, and provide services that are often critical to our clients’ operations, some of which involve classified or other sensitive information and may be conducted in war zones or other hazardous environments. As a result, we are subject to systems or service failures, not only resulting from our own failures or the failures of third-party service providers, natural disasters, power shortages, or terrorist attacks, but also from continuous exposure to cyber and other security threats, including computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or physical break-ins. In particular, as a U.S. Government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption with respect to classified or other sensitive information resulting from an attack by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists. We have been the target of these types of attacks in the past and future attacks are likely to occur. If successful, these types of attacks on our network or other systems or service failures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, due to, among other things, the loss of client or proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our clients’ businesses, and damage to our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our systems, communications, or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If our systems, services, or other applications have significant defects or errors, are successfully attacked by cyber and other security threats, suffer delivery delays, or otherwise fail to meet our clients’ expectations, we may: • lose revenue due to adverse client reaction; • be required to provide additional services to a client at no charge; • incur additional costs related to monitoring and increasing our cybersecurity; • lose revenue due to the deployment of internal staff for remediation efforts instead of client assignments; • receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain clients; • be unable to successfully market services that are reliant on the creation and maintaining of secure information technology systems to U.S. government, international, and commercial clients; • suffer claims for substantial damages, particularly as a result of any successful network or systems breach and exfiltration of client information; or • incur significant costs complying with applicable federal or state law, including laws governing protection of personal information. In addition to any costs resulting from contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenue if they result in clients postponing subsequently scheduled work or canceling or failing to renew contracts. Our errors and omissions insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management, and may harm our client relationships. In certain new business areas, we may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance and may decide not to accept or solicit business in these areas. 31 Table of Contents The growth of our U.S. and international business entails risks, including those associated with new relationships, clients, capabilities, service offerings, and maintaining our collaborative culture and core values. We are focused on growing our presence in our addressable markets by: expanding our relationships with existing clients, developing new clients by leveraging our core competencies, creating new capabilities to address our clients’ emerging needs, and undertaking business development efforts focused on identifying near-term developments and long-term trends that may pose significant challenges for our clients. These efforts entail inherent risks associated with innovation and competition from other participants in those areas, potential failure to help our clients respond to the challenges they face and, with respect to potential international growth, risks associated with operating in foreign jurisdictions, such as compliance with foreign laws and regulations and applicable U.S. regulation and economic, legal, and political conditions in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. As we attempt to develop new relationships, clients, capabilities, and service offerings, these efforts could harm our results of operations due to, among other things, a diversion of our focus and resources and actual costs and opportunity costs of pursuing these opportunities in lieu of others and these efforts could ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, our ability to grow our business by leveraging our operating model to efficiently and effectively deploy our people across our client base is largely dependent on our ability to maintain our collaborative culture. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our culture for any reason, we may be unable to grow our business. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, with the growth of our U.S. and international operations, we are now providing client services and undertaking business development efforts in numerous and disparate geographic locations both domestically and internationally. Our ability to effectively serve our clients is dependent upon our ability to successfully leverage our operating model across all of these and any future locations, maintain effective management controls over all of our locations to ensure, among other things, compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and instill our core values in all of our personnel at each of these and any future locations. Any inability to ensure any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to special U.S. government laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations to import-export control, which may expose us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our international operations are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations and deal with governmental customers in countries known to experience corruption, including certain emerging countries in the Middle East. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants or contractors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We are also subject to import-export control regulations restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services, and technical data, including requirements regarding any applicable licensing of our employees involved in such work. If we were to fail to comply with the FCPA or the applicable import-export control regulations, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for our company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Changes to our operating structure, capabilities or strategy intended to address our clients’ needs, respond to developments in our markets and grow our business may not be successful. We routinely review our operating structure, capabilities and strategy to determine whether we are effectively meeting the needs of existing clients, effectively responding to developments in our markets and successfully building a platform intended to provide the foundation for the future growth of our business. The outcome of any such review is difficult to predict and the extent of changes to our business following such a review, if any, are dependent in part upon the nature and extent of the review. If we decide to implement changes to our operating structure, capabilities, strategy or any other aspect of our business following an internal review, those changes may materially alter various aspects of our business or our business model as an entirety and there can be no assurance that any such changes will be successful or that they will not ultimately have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries may incur debt in the future, which could substantially reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, and reduce the value of your investment. In connection with the acquisition and the recapitalization transaction, which refers to the December 2009 payment of a special dividend and repayment of a portion of the deferred payment obligation and the related amendments to our credit agreements, and as a result of our business activities, we have incurred a substantial amount of debt. As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately $965.4 million of debt outstanding. The instruments governing our indebtedness may not prevent us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional debt in the future or other obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, which could increase the risks described below and lead to other risks. In addition, we may, increase the borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit agreement without the consent of any person other than the institutions agreeing to provide all or any portion of such increase, to an amount not to exceed $150.0 million and, subject to certain closing conditions including pro forma compliance with financial covenants, an additional $150.0 million. The amount of our debt or such other obligations could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • our ability to satisfy obligations to lenders may be impaired, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing for refinancing of existing indebtedness, working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, and other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt; • we may be increasingly vulnerable to economic downturns and increases in interest rates; • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industry may be limited; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other firms in our industry. Our senior secured credit agreement contains financial and operating covenants that limit our operations and could lead to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with them. Our senior secured credit agreement contains financial and operating covenants relating to, among other things, interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well as limitations on mergers, consolidations and dissolutions, sales of assets, investments and acquisitions, indebtedness and liens, dividends, repurchase of shares of capital stock and options to purchase shares of capital stock, transactions with affiliates, sale and leaseback transactions, and restricted payments. The revolving credit facility matures on July 31, 2014. The Tranche A and Tranche B term facilities mature on February 3, 2016 and August 3, 2017, respectively. Failure to meet these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of 33 Table of Contents debt, or changes in general economic conditions, which may be beyond our control. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders, which could harm our business and operations. Many of our contracts with the U.S. government are classified or subject to other security restrictions, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business. For fiscal 2012, we derived a substantial portion of our revenue from contracts with the U.S. government that are classified or subject to security restrictions that preclude the dissemination of certain information. In addition, a significant number of our employees have security clearances which preclude them from providing information regarding certain of our clients and services provided to such clients to other of our employees without security clearances and investors. Because we are limited in our ability to provide information about these contracts and services, the various risks associated with these contracts or services or any dispute or claims relating to such contracts or services, you may not have important information concerning our business, which will limit your insight into a substantial portion of our business and therefore may be less able to fully evaluate the risks related to that portion of our business. If we cannot collect our receivables or if payment is delayed, our business may be adversely affected by our inability to generate cash flow, provide working capital, or continue our business operations. We depend on the timely collection of our receivables to generate cash flow, provide working capital, and continue our business operations. If the U.S. government or any prime contractor for whom we are a subcontractor fails to pay or delays the payment of invoices for any reason, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The U.S. government may delay or fail to pay invoices for a number of reasons, including lack of appropriated funds, lack of an approved budget, or as a result of audit findings by government regulatory agencies. Some prime contractors for whom we are a subcontractor have significantly fewer financial resources than we do, which may increase the risk that we may not be paid in full or that payment may be delayed. Recent efforts by the U.S. government to revise its organizational conflict of interest rules could limit our ability to successfully compete for new contracts or task orders, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Recent efforts by the U.S. government to reform its procurement practices have focused, among other areas, on the separation of certain types of work to facilitate objectivity and avoid or mitigate organizational conflicts of interest and the strengthening of regulations governing organizational conflicts of interest. Organizational conflicts of interest may arise from circumstances in which a contractor has: • impaired objectivity during performance; • unfair access to non-public information; or • the ability to set the “ground rules” for another procurement for which the contractor competes. A focus on organizational conflicts of interest issues has resulted in legislation and a proposed regulation aimed at increasing organizational conflicts of interest requirements, including, among other things, separating sellers of products and providers of advisory services in major defense acquisition programs. In addition, we expect the U.S. government to adopt a FAR rule to address organizational conflicts of interest issues that will apply to all government contractors, including us, in Department of Defense and other procurements. A future FAR rule may also increase the restrictions in current organizational conflicts of interest regulations and rules. To the extent that proposed and future organizational conflicts of interest laws, regulations, and rules, limit our ability to successfully compete for new contracts or task orders with the U.S. government, either because of organizational conflicts of interest issues arising from our business, or because companies with which we are affiliated, including through Carlyle, or with which we otherwise conduct business, create organizational conflicts of interest issues for us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties or other adverse consequences to our business. As part of our operating strategy, we may choose to selectively pursue acquisitions. This could pose many risks, including: • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider attractive; • we may not be able to compete successfully for identified acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, or accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions on our business; • future acquisitions may require us to issue common stock or spend significant cash, resulting in dilution of ownership or additional debt leverage; • we may have difficulty retaining an acquired company’s key employees or clients; • we may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses, resulting in unforeseen difficulties, such as incompatible accounting, information management, or other control systems, and greater expenses than expected; • acquisitions may disrupt our business or distract our management from other responsibilities; • as a result of an acquisition, we may incur additional debt and we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, each of which could reduce our future reported earnings; and • we may have difficulty integrating personnel from the acquired company with our people and our core values. In connection with any acquisition that we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess, and we may fail to discover any failure of a target company to have fulfilled its contractual obligations to the U.S. government or other clients. Acquired entities may not operate profitably or result in improved operating performance. Additionally, we may not realize anticipated synergies, business growth opportunities, cost savings, and other benefits we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated by the government at any time and may contain other provisions permitting the government to discontinue contract performance, and if lost contracts are not replaced, our operating results may differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies allow government clients, among other things, to: • terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience as well as for default; • reduce orders under or otherwise modify contracts; • for contracts subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, reduce the contract price or cost where it was increased because a contractor or subcontractor furnished cost or pricing data during negotiations that was not complete, accurate, and current; • for some contracts, (i) demand a refund, make a forward price adjustment, or terminate a contract for default if a contractor provided inaccurate or incomplete data during the contract negotiation process and (ii) reduce the contract price under certain triggering circumstances, including the revision of price lists or other documents upon which the contract award was predicated; • terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; 35 Table of Contents • decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract or issue task orders in connection with ID/IQ contracts; • claim rights in solutions, systems, and technology produced by us, appropriate such work-product for their continued use without continuing to contract for our services and disclose such work-product to third parties, including other U.S. government agencies and our competitors, which could harm our competitive position; • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflicts of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors, or the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor’s judgment; • subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. government; and • control or prohibit the export of our services. If a U.S. government client were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel, or decline to exercise an option to renew with respect to one or more of our significant contracts, or suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. government, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. The U.S. government may revise its procurement, contract or other practices in a manner adverse to us. The U.S. government may: • revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract laws, rules, and regulations, such as cost accounting standards, organizational conflicts of interest, and other rules governing inherently governmental functions at any time; • reduce, delay, or cancel procurement programs resulting from U.S. government efforts to improve procurement practices and efficiency; • limit the creation of new government-wide or agency-specific multiple award contracts; • face restrictions or pressure from government employees and their unions regarding the amount of services the U.S. government may obtain from private contractors; • award contracts on a technically acceptable/lowest cost basis in order to reduce expenditures, and we may not be the lowest cost provider of services; • adopt new socio-economic requirements, including setting aside funds to small, disadvantaged businesses; • change the basis upon which it reimburses our compensation and other expenses or otherwise limit such reimbursements; and • at its option, terminate or decline to renew our contracts. In addition, any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenue and profit margin. In addition, changes to the procurement system could cause delays in the procurement decision-making process. Any such changes to the U.S. government’s procurement practices or the adoption of new contracting rules or practices could impair our ability to obtain new or re-compete contracts and any such changes or increased associated costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 36 Table of Contents As part of its cost-cutting initiative, the Department of Defense has issued guidance regarding changes to the procurement process that is intended to control cost growth throughout the acquisition cycle by developing a competitive strategy for each program. Because this initiative may significantly change the way the U.S. government solicits, negotiates, and manages its contracts, it could result in an increase in competitive pressure and decreased profitability on contracts and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The U.S. government may prefer minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses; therefore, we may not win contracts we bid for. As a result of the Small Business Administration set-aside program, the U.S. government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small, or small disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the Small Business Administration set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recomplete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. Our contracts, performance, and administrative processes and systems are subject to audits, reviews, investigations, and cost adjustments by the U.S. government, which could reduce our revenue, disrupt our business or otherwise materially adversely affect our results of operation. U.S. government agencies routinely audit, review, and investigate government contracts and government contractors’ administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, including applicable government cost accounting standards. These agencies also review our compliance with government regulations and policies, and the DCAA audits, among other areas, the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, earned value and accounting systems. These internal control systems could focus on significant elements of costs, such as executive compensation. Determination of a significant internal control deficiency by a government agency could result in increased payment withholding that might materially increase our accounts receivable days sales outstanding and adversely affect our cash flow. In particular, over time the DCAA has increased and may continue to increase the proportion of executive compensation that it deems unallowable and the size of the executive population whose compensation is disallowed, which will continue to materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition including the requirement to carry an increased level of reserves. Any costs found to be unallowable under a contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with government imposed requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Unfavorable U.S. government audit, review, or investigation results could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, and could harm our reputation and relationships with our clients and impair our ability to be awarded new contracts. For example, if our invoicing system were found to be inadequate following an audit by the DCAA, our ability to directly invoice U.S. government payment offices could be eliminated. As a result, we would be required to submit each invoice to the DCAA for approval prior to payment, which could materially increase our accounts receivable days sales outstanding and adversely affect our cash flow. In addition, proposed regulatory changes, if adopted, would require the Department of Defense’s contracting officers to impose contractual withholdings at no less than certain minimum levels based on assessments of a contractor’s business systems. An unfavorable outcome to an audit, review, or investigation by any U.S. government agency could materially and adversely affect our relationship with the U.S. government. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, withholding of payments, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Provisions that we have recorded in our financial statements as a compliance 37 Table of Contents reserve may not cover actual losses. Furthermore, the disallowance of any costs previously charged could directly and negatively affect our current results of operations for the relevant prior fiscal periods, and we could be required to repay any such disallowed amounts. Each of these results could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. A delay in the completion of the U.S. government’s budget process could result in a reduction in our backlog and have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. On an annual basis, the U.S. Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies we support. When the U.S. Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities, and thus is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, the U.S. Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. Most recently, in the absence of an annual budget for the government’s fiscal year 2011, from September 30, 2010 through March 18, 2011, President Obama signed six continuing resolutions passed by the U.S. Congress into law, and, after a threatened government shutdown, a spending bill providing funding for the government through the end of the government’s fiscal year 2011 was enacted on April 15, 2011. Under a continuing resolution, funding may not be available for new projects. In addition, when government agencies operate on the basis of a continuing resolution, they may delay funding we expect to receive on contracts we are already performing. Any such delays would likely result in new business initiatives being delayed or cancelled and a reduction in our backlog, and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. In addition, a failure to complete the budget process and fund government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution may result in a federal government shutdown. A shutdown may result in us incurring substantial costs without reimbursement under our contracts and the delay or cancellation of key programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Booz Allen Holding is a holding company with no operations of its own, and it depends on its subsidiaries for cash to fund all of its operations and expenses, including to make future dividend payments, if any. The operations of Booz Allen Holding are conducted almost entirely through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to meet its debt service obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. Further, our senior secured credit agreement significantly restricts the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. On February 29, 2012 we paid a dividend to holders of our Class A Common Stock, Class B Non-Voting Common Stock and Class E Special Voting Stock, which was funded entirely by our subsidiaries. In addition, on May 29, 2012, we declared a special and regular dividend to holders of our Class A Common Stock, Class B Non-Voting Common Stock and Class E Special Voting Stock, which was funded entirely by our subsidiaries. We may declare and make future dividend payments, which obligates our subsidiaries to make funds available to us for the payment of the dividends. Our principal stockholder could exert significant influence over our company. As of March 31, 2012, Carlyle, through Coinvest, owned shares of our common stock representing 75% of our outstanding voting power (excluding shares of common stock with respect to which Carlyle has received a voting proxy pursuant to irrevocable proxy and tag-along agreements). Under the terms of the irrevocable proxy and tag-along agreements Carlyle is able to exercise voting power over shares of our common stock owned by a number of other stockholders, including our executive officers, with respect to the election and removal of directors and change of control transactions. As a result, Carlyle will have a controlling influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. 38 Table of Contents In addition, Coinvest is a party to the amended and restated stockholders agreement pursuant to which Carlyle has the right to nominate a majority of the members of our board of directors, or our Board, and to exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval and our policy and affairs. In addition, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, currently intend to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. The concentrated holdings of funds affiliated with Carlyle, certain provisions of the amended and restated stockholders agreement and the presence of Carlyle’s nominees on our Board may result in a delay or the deterrence of possible changes in control of our company, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. The interests of Carlyle may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Carlyle is in the business of making investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future acquire controlling interests in businesses engaged in management and technology consulting that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. If Carlyle pursues such acquisitions in our industry, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, to the extent that Carlyle acquires a controlling interest in one or more companies that provide services or products to the U.S. government, our affiliation with any such company through Carlyle could create organizational conflicts of interest and similar issues for us under federal procurement laws and regulations. See “— Risks Related to Our Business — Recent efforts by the U.S. government to revise its organizational conflicts of interest rules could limit our ability to successfully compete for new contracts or task orders, which would adversely affect our results of operations.” Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of a number of factors many of which are outside our control, which could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to fluctuate. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period in the future as a result of many external factors that are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our financial results and that could cause the market price of our outstanding securities, including our Class A Common Stock, to fluctuate include those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • any cause of reduction or delay in U.S. government funding; • fluctuations in revenue earned on existing contracts; • commencement, completion, or termination of contracts during a particular period; • a potential decline in our overall profit margins if our other direct costs and subcontract revenue grow at a faster rate than labor-related revenue; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as changes to business strategy, strategic investments, acquisitions, divestitures, spin offs, and joint ventures; • a change in our contract mix to less profitable contracts; • changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect U.S. government contracts in general; • variable purchasing patterns under U.S. government GSA schedules, blanket purchase agreements, which are agreements that fulfill repetitive needs under GSA schedules, and ID/IQ contracts; • changes in demand for our services and solutions; • fluctuations in the degree to which we are able to utilize our professionals; • seasonality associated with the U.S. government’s fiscal year; • an inability to utilize existing or future tax benefits for any reason, including a change in law; • alterations to contract requirements; and • adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes. 39 Table of Contents A majority of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our consolidated assets. As a result of these security interests, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations. In addition, the existence of these security interests may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under our senior secured credit agreement, the senior secured lenders under such facilities would have a prior right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, or reorganization. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by them (including all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement), resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured indebtedness. Only after satisfying the claims of our unsecured creditors and our subsidiaries’ unsecured creditors would any amount be available for our equity holders. The pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under these financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. As of March 31, 2012, we had $965.4 million of indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement and had $272.8 million of capacity available for additional borrowings under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit agreement. In addition, we may, increase the borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit agreement without the consent of any person other than the institutions agreeing to provide all or any portion of such increase, to an amount not to exceed $150.0 million and, subject to certain closing conditions including pro forma compliance with financial covenants, an additional $150.0 million. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time consuming and any delays or difficulty in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price. As a public company, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the New York Stock Exchange rules, require us to implement various corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these public company obligations requires us to devote significant management time and place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting, and information systems. We have hired additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increased auditing, accounting, and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors’ fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees, listing fees, as well as other expenses. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework, and to report on our conclusions as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal control over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls. In addition, we are required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain effective controls or implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, or other regulatory authorities. 40 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include a number of provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing, or rendering more difficult a change in control of Booz Allen Holding that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include: • establishment of a classified Board, with staggered terms; • granting to the Board the sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors if a “group,” as defined under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, ceases to own more than 50% of our voting common stock; • granting to the Board the ability to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the Board; • a prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the Board at stockholder meetings; • requiring approval of two-thirds of stockholders to amend the bylaws; and • prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent if a “group” ceases to own more than 50% of our voting common stock. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. In addition, we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would have otherwise imposed additional requirements regarding mergers and other business combinations, until Carlyle and its affiliates no longer own more than 20% of our Class A Common Stock. After such time, we will be governed by Section 203. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult, or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. As of March 31, 2012, Carlyle owned 95,660,000 shares of our Class A Common Stock, or 75% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock (excluding shares of common stock with respect to which Carlyle has received a voting proxy pursuant to irrevocable proxy and tag-along agreements). If Carlyle sells, or the market perceives that Carlyle intends to sell, a substantial portion of its beneficial ownership interest in us in the public market, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline significantly. The sales also could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 31, 2012 128,392,549 shares of our Class A Common Stock were outstanding. In addition to the shares owned by Carlyle, 4,571,289 shares of our Class A Common Stock which are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates, are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act eligible for resale in the public market subject to volume, manner of sale and holding period limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 4,020,145 shares of our Class A Common Stock are issuable upon transfer of our Class B Non-Voting Common Stock and Class C Restricted Common Stock. In addition, 41 Table of Contents (1) 9,437,078 shares of our Class A Common Stock are issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options granted under our Officers’ Rollover Stock Plan relating to our outstanding Class E Special Voting Common Stock and (2) 22,957,282 shares of our Class A Common Stock underlying options that are either subject to the terms of our Equity Incentive Plan or reserved for future issuance under our Equity Incentive Plan are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option agreements and, to the extent held by affiliates, the volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our Class A Common Stock could decline substantially. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 