Risk Factors” section and others such as: • any cause of reduction or delay in U.S. government funding; • fluctuations in revenue earned on existing contracts; • commencement, completion, or termination of contracts during a particular period; • a potential decline in our overall profit margins if our other direct costs and subcontract revenue grow at a faster rate than labor-related revenue; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as changes to business strategy, strategic investments, acquisitions, divestitures, spin offs, and joint ventures; • a change in our contract mix to less profitable contracts; • changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect U.S. government contracts in general; • variable purchasing patterns under U.S. government GSA schedules, blanket purchase agreements, which are agreements that fulfill repetitive needs under GSA schedules, and ID/IQ contracts; • changes in demand for our services and solutions; • fluctuations in our staff utilization rates; • seasonality associated with the U.S. government’s fiscal year; • an inability to utilize existing or future tax benefits, including those related to our NOLs or stock-based compensation expense, for any reason, including a change in law; • alterations to contract requirements; and • adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes. A majority of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our consolidated assets. As a result of these security interests, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations. In addition, the existence of these security interests may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under our senior secured credit agreement, the senior secured lenders under such facilities would have a prior right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, or reorganization. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by them (including all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement), resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured indebtedness. Only after satisfying the claims of our unsecured creditors and our subsidiaries’ unsecured creditors would any amount be available for our equity holders. The pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under these financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. As of March 31, 2011, we had $994.3 million of indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement and had $273.1 million of capacity available for additional borrowings under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit agreement. In 36 addition, we may, increase the borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit agreement without the consent of any person other than the institutions agreeing to provide all or any portion of such increase, to an amount not to exceed $150.0 million and, subject to certain closing conditions including pro forma compliance with financial covenants, an additional $150.0 million. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time consuming and any delays or difficulty in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price. As a public company, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the New York Stock Exchange rules, require us to implement various corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these public company obligations requires us to devote significant management time and place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting, and information systems. We have hired additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increased auditing, accounting, and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors’ fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees, listing fees, as well as other expenses. In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework, and to report on our conclusions as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. It will also require an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal control over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for fiscal 2012 and subsequent years. In addition, we are required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain effective controls or implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012 and in future periods, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, or other regulatory authorities. Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include a number of provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing, or rendering more difficult a change in control of Booz Allen Holding that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include: • establishment of a classified Board, with staggered terms; • granting to the Board the sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the Board; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors if a “group,” as defined under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, ceases to own more than 50% of our voting common stock; • granting to the Board the ability to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the Board; • a prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; 37 • the establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the Board at stockholder meetings; • requiring approval of two-thirds of stockholders to amend the bylaws; and • prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent if a “group” ceases to own more than 50% of our voting common stock. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. In addition, we have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would have otherwise imposed additional requirements regarding mergers and other business combinations, until Coinvest and its affiliates no longer own more than 20% of our Class A Common Stock. After such time, we will be governed by Section 203. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult, or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. As of March 31, 2011, Carlyle owned 95,660,000 shares of our Class A Common Stock, or 78% of our outstanding Class A Common Stock (excluding shares of common stock with respect to which Carlyle has received a voting proxy pursuant to irrevocable proxy and tag-along agreements). If Carlyle sells, or the market perceives that Carlyle intends to sell, a substantial portion of its beneficial ownership interest in us in the public market, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline significantly. The sales also could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 31, 2011, 122,784,835 shares of our Class A Common Stock were outstanding. Of these shares, 16,100,000 shares of our Class A Common Stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market unless purchased by our “affiliates” (as that term is defined by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, or Securities Act) and all of the remaining shares of Class A Common Stock, as well as outstanding shares of our Class B Non-Voting Common Stock, Class C Restricted Common Stock and Class E Special Voting Common Stock, subject to certain exceptions, are subject to a 180-day lock-up by virtue of either contractual lock-up agreements or pursuant to the terms of the amended and restated stockholders agreement. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Barclays Capital Inc. may, in their discretion, permit our directors, officers and current stockholders who are subject to these lock-ups to sell shares prior to the expiration of the 180-day lock-up period. On May 15, 2011, the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expired and, up to an additional 99,580,420 shares of our Class A Common Stock, all of which are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates, are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act eligible for resale in the public market subject to volume, manner of sale and holding period limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining 7,104,415 shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding are also restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act eligible for resale in the public market subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. 5,081,400 shares of our Class A Common Stock are issuable upon transfer of our Class B Non-Voting Common Stock and Class C Restricted Common Stock. In addition, (1) 11,645,907 shares of our Class A Common Stock are issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options granted under our Officers’ Rollover Stock Plan relating to our outstanding Class E Special Voting Common Stock and (2) 24,640,935 shares of our Class A Common Stock underlying options that are either subject to the terms of our Equity Incentive Plan or reserved for future issuance under our Equity Incentive Plan are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option agreements and, to the extent held by affiliates, the volume and manner of 38 sale restrictions of Rule 144. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our Class A Common Stock could decline substantially. 5,131,733 of the options granted under our Officers’ Rollover Stock Plan and Equity Incentive Plan will become exercisable on June 30, 2011 and the shares of Class A Common Stock underlying such options issued upon exercise thereof will be freely transferable upon issuance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 