ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and observations. Included among the factors that, in our view, could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are the following: (i) loss or reduction in business from our significant customers; (ii) the failure of our significant customers to perform their obligations owed to us; (iii) the loss or material downtime of significant vendors and service providers; (iv) changes in demand; (v) a material decline or prolonged weakness in rates in the tanker market; (vi) changes in production of or demand for oil and petroleum products, generally or in particular regions; (vii) greater than anticipated levels of tanker newbuilding orders or lower than anticipated rates of tanker scrapping; (viii) changes in rules and regulations applicable to the tanker industry, including, without limitation, legislation adopted by international organizations such as the IMO and the European Union or by individual countries; (ix) actions taken by regulatory authorities; (x) actions by the courts, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Department of Justice or other governmental authorities and the results of the legal proceedings to which we or any of our vessels may be subject; (xi) changes in trading patterns significantly impacting overall tanker tonnage requirements; (xii) changes in the typical seasonal variations in tanker charter rates; (xiii) changes in the cost of other modes of oil transportation; (xiv) changes in oil transportation technology; (xv) increases in costs including without limitation: crew wages, insurance, provisions, repairs and maintenance; (xvi) changes in general domestic and international political conditions; (xvii) changes in the condition of our vessels or applicable maintenance or regulatory standards (which may affect, among other things, our anticipated drydocking or maintenance and repair costs); (xviii) changes in the itineraries of the our vessels; (xix) adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting our expenses; (xx) financial market conditions; and (xxi) our ability to comply with the covenants and conditions and borrow under our credit facilities; (xxii) the effects of changes in our credit rating; (xxiii) our ability to timely and effectively implement and execute our plan to restructure our capital structure; (xxiv) our ability to arrange and consummate financing or sale transactions or to access capital; (xxv) the extent to which our operating results continue to be affected by weakness in market conditions and charter rates; (xxvi) our ability to continue as a going concern; (xxvii) the satisfaction of the conditions to the consummation of the Plan, as described in the Plan and the Disclosure Statement; (xxviii) the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the Support Agreement, pursuant to which various stakeholders have agreed to support the Plan, or the Equity Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which Oaktree-managed funds have agreed to put new capital into us; (xxix) objections that may be raised with respect to the Plan and the adjudication of those objections in the Chapter 11 Cases; (xxx) the outcome of the discussions with the Creditors Committee and our ability and the Creditors Committee to achieve consensus; (xxxi) whether we are able to generate sufficient cash flows and maintain adequate liquidity to meet our liquidity needs, service our indebtedness and finance the ongoing obligations of our business during the Chapter 11 Cases and thereafter, including the extent to which our operating results may continue to be affected by weakness in market conditions and charter rates; (xxxii) the effects of the Bankruptcy Court rulings in the Chapter 11 Cases and the outcome of the cases in general; (xxxiii) the length of time we will operate under the Chapter 11 Cases; (xxxiv) the pursuit by our various creditors, equity holders and other constituents of their interests in the Chapter 11 Cases in general; (xxxv) other potential adverse effects of the Chapter 11 proceedings on liquidity or results of operations in general, including our ability to operate pursuant to the terms of the debtor-in-possession facility and increased administrative and restructuring costs related to the Chapter 11 Cases; (xxxvi) our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to its operation, to obtain and maintain acceptable terms with our vendors, customers and service providers and to retain key executives, managers and employees; (xxxvii) the timing and realization of the recoveries of assets and the payments of claims and the amount of expenses required to recognize such recoveries and reconcile such claims; (xxxviii) our ability to obtain sufficient and acceptable “exit” financing; and the other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the SEC. We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business, including market, financial, operational, legal and regulatory risks. Below, we have described certain important risks that could affect our business. These risks and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. 29 RISKS RELATED TO THE CHAPTER 11 CASES We and substantially all of our subsidiaries have filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, jointly administered as Case No. 11-15285(MG) and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases. For the duration of the Chapter 11 Cases, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. These risks include: · our ability to comply with and to operate under the terms of the DIP Facility and any cash management orders entered by the Bankruptcy Court from time to time; · our ability to obtain approval of the Bankruptcy Court with respect to motions filed in the Chapter 11 Cases from time to time; · our ability to obtain creditor and Bankruptcy Court approval for, and then to consummate, a plan of reorganization to emerge from bankruptcy; · the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the Support Agreement and Equity Purchase Agreement entered into with certain of our lenders under the Pre-Petition Credit Facilities; · our ability to attract and retain customers; · our ability to obtain and maintain acceptable terms with vendors and service providers and to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; · our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees; and · our ability to fund and execute our business plan. We will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of the creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Chapter 11 Cases that may be inconsistent with our plans. The Chapter 11 Cases may affect our relationships with, and their ability to negotiate favorable terms with, creditors, customers, charterers, vendors, employees, and other personnel and counterparties. While we expect to continue normal operations, public perception of our continued viability may affect, among other things, the desire of new and existing charterers and customers to enter into or continue their charter or other agreements or arrangements with us. The failure to maintain any of these important relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the public disclosure of the Chapter 11 Cases and our liquidity constraints, our ability to maintain normal credit terms with vendors may be impaired. Also, upon the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, transactions outside the ordinary course of business require approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or to take advantage of certain opportunities. We are operating under a cash management strategy to preserve liquidity. This ongoing cash management strategy limits many of our operational and strategic initiatives designed to maintain or grow our business over the long term. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Cases, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the reorganization process will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating as debtors-in-possession under chapter 11, we may sell or otherwise dispose of or liquidate assets or settle liabilities, subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court or as otherwise permitted in the ordinary course of business, for amounts other than those reflected in the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Report. The DIP Facility may be insufficient to fund our business operations, or may be unavailable if we do not comply with its terms. Although we believe that we will have sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses through the Effective Date, there can be no assurance that the revenue generated by our business operations, together with amounts available under the DIP Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operations, especially as we expect to incur substantial professional and other fees related to the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that revenue flows and available borrowings under the DIP Facility are not sufficient to meet our liquidity 30 requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. Similarly, in the event that we fail to comply with any of the terms or conditions of the DIP Facility, the outstanding principal balance under the DIP Facility (including accrued interest thereon) may become due and payable and we may need to obtain additional financing to repay the amount due under the DIP Facility. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on terms that are acceptable to us or the Bankruptcy Court. If, for one or more reasons, we are unable to obtain such additional financing, we could be required to seek a sale of the company or certain of its material assets or our businesses and assets may be subject to liquidation under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code and we may cease to continue as a going concern. The DIP Facility provides for affirmative and negative covenants, including negative covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, dispose of or purchase assets, pay dividends or take certain other actions, as well as financial covenants including compliance with a budget, minimum cumulative EBITDA and minimum liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants and meet our obligations as they become due or to comply with the other terms and conditions of the DIP Facility. Should business activity levels be below expectations, we could default on our DIP Facility obligations. Any default of our obligations under the DIP Facility could result in a default of our obligations under the Restructuring Support Agreement and the Equity Purchase Agreement, which could imperil our ability to confirm the Plan. We may not meet certain financial covenants under our DIP Facility and are pursuing amendments to our DIP Facility intended to allow us to remain in compliance with such covenants. The DIP Facility requires us to maintain minimum cumulative EBITDA for the period commencing on November 1, 2011 and ending on the last day of a month set forth below in the following respective amount: Month Minimum EBITDA December 2011 $ 2,115,000 January 2012 $ 4,600,000 February 2012 $ 6,875,000 March 2012 $ 9,350,000 April 2012 $ 12,100,000 May 2012 $ 15,700,000 June 2012 $ 19,225,000 July 2012 $ 23,725,000 August 2012 $ 28,050,000 September 2012 $ 32,750,000 October 2012 $ 37,200,000 On February 15, 2012, we entered into a waiver (the “DIP Facility Waiver”) to the DIP Facility. We did not meet the minimum cumulative EBITDA requirement of $2.1 million for the period commencing on November 1, 2011 through and including December 31, 2011. The DIP Facility Waiver waives the minimum EBITDA covenant for this period and the period commencing on November 1, 2011 through and including January 31, 2012. Furthermore, based on our results of operations since November 1, 2011, we believe that, absent an amendment or additional waivers to the DIP Facility, we may not meet the minimum cumulative EBITDA requirement for certain periods commencing on November 1, 2011 and ending after January 31, 2012. We experienced diminished chartering activity during the period surrounding our filing of the Chapter 11 Cases and continue to be subject to a difficult charter rate environment, which have negatively impacted our cumulative EBITDA. In this connection, we are seeking an amendment to the DIP Facility to provide us with greater flexibility in complying with the covenants under the DIP Facility. We cannot assure you that any amendment or waiver could be obtained on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of our existing agreements and other arrangements, including the Support Agreement and Equity Purchase Agreement, may restrict us from pursuing certain alternatives. Any default of our obligations under the DIP Facility could result in a default of our obligations under the Support Agreement and the Equity Purchase Agreement, imperil our ability to confirm the Plan, force us to sell the Company or certain of its material assets or liquidate under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. 31 Operating under chapter 11 may restrict our ability to pursue our strategic and operational initiatives. Under chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Additionally, the terms of the DIP Facility limit our ability to undertake certain business initiatives. These limitations include, among other things, our ability to: · sell assets outside the normal course of business; · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; · grant liens; and · finance our operations, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interests. The commencement and prosecution of the Chapter 11 Cases has consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management and will impact how our business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The requirements of the Chapter 11 Cases have consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of our management’s time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operation of our business. This diversion of attention may materially adversely affect the conduct of our business, and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance. Our capital structure will likely be significantly altered under any plan of reorganization ultimately confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Under fresh-start reporting rules that may apply to us upon the effective date of the Plan, our assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair values and our accumulated deficit would be restated to zero. Accordingly, if fresh-start reporting rules apply, our financial condition and results of operations following our emergence from chapter 11 would not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operation reflected in our historical financial statements. In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases and the Plan, it is also possible that additional restructuring and related charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. Such charges could be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations in any given period. Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. The Plan will result in the cancellation of the common stock of General Maritime Corporation. It is impossible to predict at this time whether our other securities will be cancelled or if holders of such securities will receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, their investments. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and pre-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full before shareholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a chapter 11 plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or shareholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of such a plan. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 Cases to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. The Plan results in holders of the common stock of General Maritime Corporation receiving no distribution on account of their interests and in the cancellation and extinguishment of their existing stock. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, the Plan can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by the class comprising the interests of General Maritime Corporation equity security holders. Therefore, an investment in General Maritime Corporation common stock is highly speculative and will become worthless (or be cancelled) in the future without any required approval or consent of the shareholders of General Maritime Corporation. The Plan provides for a distribution of warrants to purchase new equity in General Maritime Corporation to holders of claims against General Maritime Corporation. It is unclear at this stage of the Chapter 11 Cases if the Plan would allow for distributions with respect to our other securities. In the event of cancellation of our equity or other securities, amounts invested by the holders of such securities will not be recoverable and such securities would have no value. Trading prices for our equity or other securities may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders thereof in the Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, we urge extreme caution with respect to existing and future investments in our equity or other securities. 32 Our common stock is no longer listed on a national securities exchange and is quoted only in the over-the-counter market, which could negatively affect our stock price and liquidity. The shares of our common stock were listed on the NYSE under the symbol “GMR.” In connection with the announcement of our filing for chapter 11, on November 17, 2011, the NYSE suspended the trading of our shares. Our common stock commenced trading on the OTC market on November 17, 2011. However, the extent of the public market for our common stock and the continued availability of quotations would depend upon such factors as the aggregate market value of the common stock, the interest in maintaining a market in our common stock on the part of securities firms and other factors. The over-the-counter market is a significantly more limited market than the NYSE, and the quotation of our common stock in the over-the-counter market may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential shareholders to trade shares of our common stock. This could further depress the trading price of our common stock and could also have a long-term adverse effect on our ability to raise capital. There can be no assurance that any public market for our common stock will exist in the future. For a summary of what we are proposing in the Plan see “- The Plan.” The Plan is subject to Bankruptcy Court approval. We have not made any final determinations with respect to reorganizing our capital structure, and any changes to our capital structure may have a material adverse effect on existing debt and security holders. Any reorganization of our capital structure that we may engage in may include exchanges of new debt or equity securities for our existing securities, and such new debt or equity securities may be issued at different interest rates, payment schedules, and maturities than our existing securities. We may also modify or amend our existing securities to the same effect. Such exchanges or modifications are inherently complex to implement. The success of a reorganization through any such exchanges or modifications will depend on approval by the Bankruptcy Court and the willingness of existing security holders to agree to the exchange or modification, and there can be no guarantee of success. If such exchanges or modifications are successful, holders of our debt may find their holdings no longer have any value or are materially reduced in value, or they may be converted to equity and be diluted or receive debt with a principal amount that is less than the outstanding principal amount, longer maturities, and reduced interest rates. There can be no assurance that any new debt or equity securities will maintain their value at the time of issuance. Also, if the existing debt or equity security holders are adversely affected by a reorganization, it may adversely affect the Company’s ability to issue new debt or equity in the future. Any plan of reorganization that we may implement will be based in large part upon assumptions and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, our plan may be unsuccessful in its execution. Any plan of reorganization that we may implement could affect both our capital structure and the ownership, structure and operation of our businesses and will reflect assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we consider appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) our ability to change substantially our capital structure; (ii) our ability to obtain adequate liquidity and financing sources; (iii) our ability to maintain customers’ confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient business from them; (iv) our ability to retain key employees, and (v) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions of the financial and shipping industries, both in the United States and in global markets. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful reorganization of our businesses. In addition, any plan of reorganization will rely upon financial projections, including with respect to revenues, EBITDA, debt service and cash flow. Financial forecasts are necessarily speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. In our case, the forecasts are even more speculative than normal, because they involve fundamental changes in the nature of our capital structure. Accordingly, we expect that our actual financial condition and results of operations will differ, perhaps materially, from what we have anticipated. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by any plan of reorganization we may implement will occur or, even if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on us and our subsidiaries or our businesses or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of any plan of reorganization. Inadequate liquidity could materially adversely affect our future business operations. Given the current business environment, our liquidity needs could be significantly higher than we currently anticipate. Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity through 2012 and beyond could depend on our ability to successfully implement an appropriate plan of reorganization, successful operation of our business, appropriate management of operating expenses and capital spending and our ability to complete asset sales on favorable terms. Our expected liquidity needs are highly sensitive to changes in each of these and other factors. 33 Even if we successfully take any of the actions described above, we may be required to execute asset sales or other capital generating actions over and above our normal business activities and cut back or eliminate other programs that are important to the future success of our business. In addition, our customers, suppliers and service providers might respond to further weakening of our liquidity position by requesting quicker payment or requiring additional collateral. If this were to happen, our need for cash would be intensified and we may be unable to operate our business successfully. We may not be able to realize adequate consideration for the disposition of vessels or other assets. In connection with any plan of reorganization, we may consider potential asset sales. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing any asset sale transactions, because there may not be a sufficient number of buyers willing to enter into any transactions, we may not receive sufficient consideration for such assets, or the holders of our debt or equity securities may object to any sale of assets. These transactions, if completed, may reduce the size of our business. From time to time, we also receive inquiries from third parties regarding our potential interest in disposing of certain of our assets, which we may or may not choose to pursue. The value of vessels have declined due to market conditions starting in 2008 and have continued to today. There is no assurance that we will receive adequate consideration for any vessel or other asset dispositions. Dispositions may result in us recognizing significant losses. As a result, our future disposition of vessels or other assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan or there may be a delay of the Effective Date. In order for us to emerge successfully from the Chapter 11 Cases as viable entities, we, like any other chapter 11 debtor, must obtain approval of the Plan from our creditors and confirmation of a plan of reorganization through the Bankruptcy Court, and then successfully implement the plan of reorganization. The foregoing process requires us to (i) meet certain statutory requirements with respect to the adequacy of the disclosure statement relating to the plan of reorganization, (ii) solicit and obtain creditor acceptances of the plan of reorganization and (iii) fulfill other statutory conditions with respect to the confirmation of the plan of reorganization. Although we believe that the Plan satisfies all of the requirements necessary for confirmation by the Bankruptcy Court, there can be no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court will reach the same conclusion. Moreover, there can be no assurance that modifications to the Plan will not be required for confirmation or that such modifications would not necessitate the re-solicitation of votes to accept the Plan, as modified. Additionally, by its terms, the Plan will not become effective unless, among other things, the conditions precedent contained therein have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms of the Plan. Although we believe that the Effective Date may occur during the second calendar quarter of 2012, there can be no assurance as to such timing or that the conditions to the Effective Date contained in the Plan will ever occur. The impact that a prolonging of the Chapter 11 Cases may have on our operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. The continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases, particularly if the Plan is not approved, confirmed, or implemented within the time frame currently contemplated, could adversely affect our operations and relationships between us and our customers and charterers, suppliers, service providers and creditors; result in increased professional fees and similar expenses; and threaten our ability to obtain the equity investment contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement. Failure to confirm the Plan or any delay of the Effective Date could further weaken our liquidity position, which could jeopardize our exit from chapter 11, force us to sell the Company or certain of its material assets or liquidate under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Further, under the Plan, we could withdraw the Plan with respect to any Debtors and proceed with confirmation of the Plan with respect to any other Debtors. The Equity Investment under the Equity Purchase Agreement may not be obtained and the Equity Purchase Agreement may be terminated. The Equity Purchase Agreement is subject to specified conditions. For example, the Oaktree Funds have the contractual right to terminate the Equity Purchase Agreement if, among other reasons, we fail to satisfy certain deadlines or do not have cash on hand of a minimum of $20 million (plus any amount by which accounts payable exceed $10 million) at closing (after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Plan). Because the Plan is predicated on the our receipt of the equity investment contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement, we will not be able to consummate the Plan in its current form if we or the Oaktree Funds do not comply with our respective obligations under the Equity Purchase Agreement. A failure to consummate the Plan or attract a different equity investment on terms acceptable to the DIP Lenders may result in a sale of substantially all of our assets in accordance with the Bidding Procedures Order entered by the Bankruptcy Court on December 15, 2011. 34 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Inadequate liquidity could materially adversely affect our future business operations. Given the current business environment, our liquidity needs could be significantly higher than currently anticipated. Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity through 2012 and beyond could depend on our ability to successfully implement the Plan, successful operation of our business, appropriate management of operating expenses and capital spending, and our ability to complete asset sales on favorable terms. Our expected liquidity needs are highly sensitive to changes in each of these and other factors. Even if we successfully take any or all of the actions described above, we may be required to execute asset sales or other capital generating actions over and above our normal business activities, and cut back or eliminate other programs that are important to the future success of our business. In addition, our customers, suppliers and service providers might respond to further weakening of our liquidity position by requesting quicker payment or requiring additional collateral. If this were to happen, our need for cash would be intensified, and we may be unable to operate our business successfully. The current global economic turndown and disruptions in world financial markets may negatively impact our business. In recent years, there has been a significant adverse shift in the global economy, with operating businesses facing tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and declining markets. Although the global economy has shown signs of recovery, the global economy remains relatively weak. Recovery of the global economy is proceeding at varying speeds across regions and remains subject to downside risks, including fragility of advanced economies and concerns over sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries such as Greece. The possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries, such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal, has weakened the Euro Zone and may lead to weaker consumer demand in the European Union, the United States and other parts of the world. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for tanker cargoes. Furthermore, the credit crisis in European Union member countries, has increased volatility in global credit and equity markets. These issues, along with the re-pricing of credit risk and the difficulties currently experienced by financial institutions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing in the future. As a result of the disruptions in the credit markets, many lenders have increased margins, enacted tighter lending standards, required more restrictive terms (including higher collateral ratios for advances, shorter maturities and smaller loan amounts), or refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to our current debt. Certain banks that have historically been significant lenders to the shipping industry have announced an intention to reduce or cease lending activities in the shipping industry. New banking regulations, including larger capital requirements and the resulting policies adopted by lenders, could reduce lending activities. We may experience difficulties obtaining financing commitments in the future if our lenders are unwilling to extend financing to us or unable to meet their funding obligations due to their own liquidity, capital or solvency issues. If adverse conditions in the global economy or the global credit markets or volatility in the financial markets continue or worsen, we could experience a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A further economic slowdown or changes in the economic and political environment in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the transportation of crude oil and petroleum products to ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in the region, and particularly in China, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will not experience a significant slowdown or contraction in the future. Many of the economic and political reforms adopted by the Chinese government are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports of crude oil or petroleum products to China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or restrictions on importing commodities into the country. Moreover, a significant or protracted slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or various Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. 35 The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatility in charter rates and vessel values which may adversely affect our earnings. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be affected by the rate of economic growth in the world’s economy, as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world’s fleet. As of December 31, 2011, seven of our 12 time charter contracts will expire prior to September 30, 2012. If the tanker industry, which has been highly cyclical, continues to be depressed in the future when our charters expire, or at a time when we may want to sell a vessel, our earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations, including payment of debt service to lenders. The factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The current global financial crisis has intensified this unpredictability. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: · supply of and demand for petroleum and petroleum products; · global, regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade and fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production; · geographic changes in oil production, processing and consumption; · oil price levels; · actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); · inventory policies of the major oil and oil trading companies; · strategic inventory policies of countries such as the United States and China; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which tanker cargoes are transported by sea; · environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; · weather and acts of God and natural disasters, including hurricanes and typhoons; · competition from alternative sources of energy and from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation; and · international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions, nationalizations, piracy and wars. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: · current and expected purchase orders for tankers; · the number of tanker newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older tankers; · conversion of tankers to other uses or conversion of other vessels to tankers; · the price of steel and vessel equipment; · technological advances in tanker design and capacity; 36 · tanker freight rates, which are affected by factors that may affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying up of tankers; · the number of tankers that are out of service; and · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of tankers. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for tanker capacity. The recent global economic crisis may further reduce demand for transportation of oil over long distances and supply of tankers that carry oil, which may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of tankers being scrapped and lost, tanker capacity will increase. In addition, we believe that the total newbuilding order books for Suezmax vessels and Aframax vessels scheduled to enter the fleet through 2012 currently are a substantial portion of the existing fleets, and there can be no assurance that the order books will not increase further in proportion to the existing fleets. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline and the value of our vessels could be adversely affected. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. We seek to deploy our vessels between spot market voyage charters and time charters in a manner that maximizes long-term cash flow. As of December 31, 2011, 12 of our vessels are contractually committed to fixed-rate time charters, with the remaining terms of these charters expiring on dates between May 2012 and August 2013. Although these time charters generally provide stable revenues, we also limit the portion of our fleet available for spot market voyages during an upswing in the tanker industry cycle, when spot market voyages might be more profitable. We deploy a substantial portion of our fleet in the spot market. Although spot chartering is common in the crude and product tankers sectors, crude and product tankers charter hire rates are highly volatile and may fluctuate significantly based upon demand for seaborne transportation of crude oil and petroleum products, as well as tanker supply. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. Furthermore, as charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage that may last up to several weeks, during periods in which spot charter rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases. The spot market is highly volatile and, in the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. Currently, charter hire rates are at relatively low rates historically and there is no assurance that the crude oil and product tanker charter market will recover over the next several months or will not continue to decline further. We earned approximately 39% of our net voyage revenue from spot charters for the year ended December 31, 2011. The spot charter market is highly competitive, and spot market voyage charter rates may fluctuate dramatically based primarily on the worldwide supply of tankers available in the market for the transportation of oil and the worldwide demand for the transportation of oil by tanker. There can be no assurance that future spot market voyage charters will be available at rates that will allow us to operate our vessels that are not under time charter profitably. The failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We employ 12 vessels under time charters with an average remaining duration of approximately 9.8 months as of December 31, 2011. The ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the tanker industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the default by a charterer under a charter of a vessel may be considerable and this may negatively impact our business. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter agreements or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses. If our charterers attempt to renegotiate their charters or default on their charters, that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. 37 The market for crude oil transportation services is highly competitive and we may not be able to effectively compete. Our vessels are employed in a highly competitive market. Our competitors include the owners of other Aframax, Suezmax, VLCC, Panamax and Handymax vessels and, to a lesser degree, owners of other size tankers. Both groups include independent oil tanker companies as well as oil companies. We do not control a sufficiently large share of the market to influence the market price charged for crude oil transportation services. Our market share may decrease in the future, and we may not be able to compete profitably as we expand our business into new geographic regions or provide new services. New markets may require different skills, knowledge or strategies than we use in our current markets, and the competitors in those new markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. The market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, and we may incur losses when we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. We believe that the fair market value of our vessels may have declined recently, and may decrease further depending on a number of factors including: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies; · supply and demand for tankers and the types and sizes of tankers we own; · alternative modes of transportation; · ages of vessels; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. Declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause the market value of our vessels to decrease significantly. We evaluate the carrying amounts of our vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future freight rates, earnings from the vessels and discount rates. All of these items have been historically volatile. We evaluate the recoverable amount as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the vessel, the vessel is deemed impaired. The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value at any point in time because the new market prices of secondhand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of newbuildings. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of further declines in charter rates could negatively affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Due to the cyclical nature of the tanker market, the market value of one or more of our vessels may at various times be lower than their book value, and sales of those vessels during those times would result in losses. If we determine at any time that a vessel’s future limited useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, that could result in a charge against our earnings and the reduction of our shareholders’ equity. If for any reason we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we would also incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. 38 Declining tanker values could affect our ability to raise cash by limiting our ability to refinance vessels and thereby adversely impact our liquidity. In addition, declining vessel values could result in the reduction in lending commitments, the pledging of unencumbered vessels as additional collateral, the requirement to repay outstanding amounts or a breach of loan covenants, which could give rise to an event of default under our credit facilities. We may not be able to grow or to effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by taking advantage of changing market conditions, which may include expanding our business in the Atlantic basin, the primary geographic area and market where we operate, expanding into other regions, or increasing the number of vessels in our fleet. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: · identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning vessels for acquisitions or joint ventures; · identify vessels and/or shipping companies for acquisitions; · integrate any acquired businesses or vessels successfully with our existing operations; · hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · identify additional new markets outside of the Atlantic basin; · improve operating and financial systems and controls; and · obtain required financing for existing and new operations. Our ability to grow is in part dependent on our ability to expand our fleet through acquisitions of suitable double-hull vessels. We may not be able to acquire newbuildings or secondhand double-hull tankers on favorable terms, which could impede our growth and negatively impact our financial condition. We may not be able to contract for newbuildings or locate suitable secondhand double-hull vessels or negotiate acceptable construction or purchase contracts with shipyards and owners, or obtain financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. The failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any vessels or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate seasonally. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in tanker demand and, as a result, in charter rates. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the fall and winter months (the fourth and first quarters of the calendar year) in anticipation of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere during the winter months. Unpredictable weather patterns and variations in oil reserves disrupt vessel scheduling and could impact charter rates. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars, but incur a significant portion of expenses, particularly crew and maintenance costs, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Furthermore, due to the recent sovereign debt crisis in certain European member countries, the U.S. dollar-Euro exchange rate has experienced volatility. An adverse movement in these currencies could increase our expenses. There may be risks associated with the purchase and operation of secondhand vessels. Our business strategy may include additional growth through the acquisition of additional secondhand vessels. Although we inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if such vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Therefore, our future operating results could be negatively affected if some of the vessels do not perform as expected. Also, we generally do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are more than one year old. 39 An increase in costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our vessel operating expenses are comprised of a variety of costs including crew costs, provisions, deck and engine stores, lubricating oil, insurance, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire shipping industry. Additionally, repairs and maintenance costs are difficult to predict with certainty and may be substantial. Many of these expenses are not covered by our insurance. Also, costs such as insurance and security are still increasing. If costs continue to rise, that could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. Fuel, or bunkers, is a significant, if not the largest, expense for our vessels that will be employed in the spot market. With respect to our vessels that will be employed on time charter, the charterer is generally responsible for the cost of fuel. However, such cost may affect the charter rates that we are able to negotiate for our vessels. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Furthermore, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business compared to other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. If our vessels suffer damage, we may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of revenues while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited, and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility, or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, the total loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent any such damage, costs or loss, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and available cash. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels are currently registered under the flags of the Republic of Liberia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands and Bermuda. Each of these jurisdictions imposes taxes based on the tonnage capacity of each of the vessels registered under its flag. The tonnage taxes imposed by these countries could increase, which would cause the costs of our operations to increase. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial tanker must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a tanker is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the tanker and the international conventions of which that country is a member. All of our vessels are certified as being “in-class” by Det Norske Veritas or the American Bureau of Shipping. These classification societies are members of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and on special survey or continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to five years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If a vessel in our fleet does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, it will be unemployable and unable to trade between ports. This would negatively impact our results of operations. 40 We depend on our key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In particular, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases, we may experience increased levels of employee attrition, and our employees are facing considerable distraction and uncertainty. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer and supplier expectations, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Our ability to engage, motivate and retain key employees or take other measures intended to motivate and incentivize key employees to remain through the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is limited during the Chapter 11 Cases by restrictions on implementation of retention programs. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our strategy and implement operational initiatives, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our future success depends particularly on the continued service of John Tavlarios, our President, and our ability to attract a suitable replacement, if necessary. In addition, Peter Georgiopoulos has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2001. The loss of Peter Georgiopoulos’ full-time service could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified ship officers and crew. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. We expect crew costs to increase slightly in 2012. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. Our vessel-owning subsidiaries and our third-party technical management companies employ masters, officers and crews to man our vessels. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of any customer could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We have derived, and we believe we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. If any of our key customers breach or terminate their time charters or renegotiate or renew them on terms less favorable than those currently in effect, or if any significant customer decreases the amount of business it transacts with us, or if we lose any of our customers or a significant portion of our revenues, our operating results, cash flows and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Shipping is an inherently risky business and our insurance may not be adequate. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, human error, grounding, fire, explosions, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. Changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, market disruptions, delay or rerouting. In addition, the operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and the associated costs could exceed the insurance coverage available to us. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. We carry insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. We currently maintain $1 billion in coverage for each of our vessels for liability for spillage or leakage of oil or pollution, and also carry insurance covering lost revenue resulting from vessel off-hire for all of our vessels. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which we are not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future and cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases, or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on 41 our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against us. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us which could reduce our cash flows and place strains on our liquidity and capital resources. The risks associated with older vessels could adversely affect our operations. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase as the vessel ages. As of December 31, 2011, the weighted average age of the 30 vessels we own that are in our fleet was 8.1 years, compared to an average age of 8.6 years as of December 31, 2010 (including the three Chartered-in Vessels). Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels typically are less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of tankers may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels, and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. There can be no assurance that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify any required expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we do not set aside funds and are unable to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we estimate to be 25 years from their build dates. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our revenue will decline and our business, results of operations, financial condition, and available cash per share would be adversely affected. Any funds set aside for vessel replacement will reduce available cash. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and off the western coast of Africa. In recent years, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, or Joint War Committee (“JWC”) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In response to piracy incidents in recent years, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, following consultation with regulatory authorities, we may station guards on some of our vessels in some instances. While the use of guards is intended to deter and prevent the hijacking of vessels, it may also increase our risk of liability for death or injury to persons or damage to personal property. While we believe that we generally have adequate insurance in place to cover such liability, if we do not, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks, the continuing conflicts in Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and North Africa, and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East and North Africa may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability in the global financial and commercial markets. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil and other refined products to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control, such as recent threats by Iran to block the Strait of Hormuz, that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil and other refined products to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts, which would harm our cash flow and business. 42 If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. Almost all of our charters with customers contain restrictions prohibiting our vessels from entering any countries or conducting any trade prohibited by the United States. Two of our charters, which were in place at the time we acquired the vessels to which they relate, do not contain such restrictions. In these cases, we nonetheless request our charterers to not operate our vessels in any such countries or conduct any prohibited trade. However, there can be no assurance that, on such charterers’ instructions, our vessels will not call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions or embargoes imposed by the U.S. government or countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our Company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our Company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our Company may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which our customers operate. Several of our customers have operations in locations that are subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather and geological events, which could disrupt the operations of those customers and suppliers, as well as our operations. For example, in March 2011, the northern region of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a tsunami. These geological events caused significant damage in that region and have adversely affected Japan’s infrastructure and economy. Several of our customers are located in Japan and have experienced, and may experience in the future, shutdowns as a result of these events, and their operations may be negatively impacted by these events. As a result, some or all of those customers may reduce their orders for crude oil, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition to the negative direct economic effects of recent events on the Japanese economy and on our customers and suppliers located in Japan, economic conditions in Japan could also adversely affect regional and global economic conditions. The degree to which these events, as well as future events, in Japan will adversely affect regional and global economies remains uncertain at this time. However, if these events cause a decrease in demand for crude oil, our financial condition and operations could be adversely affected. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the 2010 drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. On April 22, 2010, the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, which was engaged in deepwater drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico, sank after an explosion and fire. The incident resulted in a significant and uncontrolled oil spill off the coast of Louisiana. In response to this incident, proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress to, among other things, increase the limits of liability under the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990. At this time, we cannot predict what, if any, impact the Deepwater Horizon incident may have on the regulation of shipping activity or the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of our operations. Changes in laws or regulations applicable to our operations and increases in the cost or reductions in the availability of insurance could have a negative impact on our profitability. Compliance with safety, environmental and other governmental requirements and related costs may adversely affect our operations. The shipping industry in general, and our business and the operation of our vessels in particular, are affected by a variety of governmental regulations in the form of numerous international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers are registered. These regulations include, but are not limited to: · the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, which impose strict liability for the discharge of oil into the 200-mile United States exclusive economic zone, the obligation to obtain certificates of financial responsibility for vessels trading in United States waters and the requirement that newly constructed tankers that trade in United States waters be constructed with double-hulls; · the U.S. Clean Air Act; · the U.S. Clean Water Act; 43 · the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969 entered into by many countries (other than the United States) which imposes strict liability for pollution damage caused by the discharge of oil; · the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or the MARPOL Convention, adopted and implemented under the auspices of the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, with respect to strict technical and operational requirements for tankers; · the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, which imposes crew and passenger safety requirements and requires the party with operational control of a vessel to develop an extensive safety management system; · the International Ship and Port Facilities Securities Code, or the ISPS Code, which became effective in 2004; · the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 which imposes requirements relating to the safeguarding of life and property through limitations on load capability for vessels on international voyages; and · the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 which imposes security requirements for tankers entering U.S. ports. More stringent maritime safety rules have been imposed in the European Union. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or similar events in the future, may result in further regulation of the tanker industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, and related increases in compliance costs, all of which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance with applicable safety and environmental laws and regulations and are insured against usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. The vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during each vessel’s required annual survey. However, government regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact may change in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures with respect to our ships to keep them in compliance. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other applicable worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. These laws include the recently enacted U.K. Bribery Act, which became effective on July 1, 2011 and which is broader in scope than the FCPA, as it contains no facilitating payments exception. We charter our vessels into some jurisdictions that international corruption monitoring groups have identified as having high levels of corruption. Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws. Our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws. Although we have policies, procedures and internal controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, we cannot assure that our policies and procedures will protect us from governmental investigations or inquiries surrounding actions of our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions. Our vessels may be requisitioned by governments without adequate compensation. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. In the case of a requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Although we, as owners, would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by “arresting” or “attaching” a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. 44 In addition, in jurisdictions where the “sister ship” theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien, as well as any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with “sister ship” liability laws, claims might be asserted against us, any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. We may have to pay U.S. tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our net income and cash flows. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 (“Section 883”) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), then we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our shipping income that is derived from U.S. sources. If we are subject to such tax, our results of operations and cash flows would be reduced by the amount of such tax. We will qualify for exemption under Section 883 if, among other things, (i) our stock is treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States (the “publicly traded requirement”) or (ii) we satisfy one of the two ownership tests. Under applicable Treasury regulations, we may not satisfy this publicly traded requirement in any taxable year in which 50% or more of our stock is owned for more than half the days in such year by persons who actually or constructively own five percent or more of our stock (sometimes referred to as “5% Shareholders”). We believe that, based on the ownership of our stock in 2011, we satisfied the publicly traded requirement for 2011. However, if 5% Shareholders were to own more than 50% of our common stock for more than half the days of any future taxable year, we may not be eligible to claim exemption from tax under Section 883 for such taxable year. There can be no assurance that changes and shifts in the ownership of our stock by 5% Shareholders will not preclude us from qualifying for exemption from tax in 2012 or in future years. If we do not qualify for the Section 883 exemption, our shipping income derived from U.S. sources, or 50% of our gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United States, would be subject to a four percent tax, without allowance for deductions. Pursuant to the Plan, affiliates of Oaktree will beneficially own more than 50% of our common stock and we will not list our common stock on a national securities exchange. As such, there can be no assurance that we will satisfy the publicly traded requirement following the effective date of the Plan or that we will otherwise be able to qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883. Legislative action relating to taxation could materially and adversely affect us. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. For example, legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress which, if enacted, could change the circumstances under which we would be treated as U.S. persons for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position and require us to take action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate and cash tax position. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or (ii) at least 50% of its assets (averaged over the year and generally determined based upon value) produce or are held for the production of “passive income” (“Passive Assets”). U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to distributions we receive from the PFIC and gain, if any, we derive from the sale or other disposition of their stock in the PFIC. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” generally includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in applicable Treasury regulations. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” By contrast, rental income would generally constitute passive income unless we were treated under specific rules as deriving our rental income in the active conduct of a trade or business. We do not believe that our past or existing operations would cause us, or would have caused our subsidiaries, to be deemed a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and spot chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that (i) 45 our income from time and spot chartering activities does not constitute passive income and (ii) the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. While there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation, there is legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and pronouncements by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are PFICs. Moreover, because (i) there are uncertainties in the application of the PFIC rules, (ii) the PFIC test is an annual test, and (iii) although we intend to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status to the extent consistent with our other business goals, there could be changes in the nature and extent of our operations in future years, there can be no assurance that we will not become PFICs in any taxable year. If we were to be treated as PFICs for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain as PFICs for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. tax consequences. These adverse tax consequences to shareholders could negatively impact our ability to issue additional equity in order to raise the capital necessary for our business operations. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Climate change may reduce the demand for oil or increased regulation of greenhouse gases may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. Proceedings involving General Maritime, our vessel-operating subsidiary and two General Maritime vessel officers could negatively impact our business. We have been subject to claims in various legal proceedings (including as described below), and may become subject to other claims or legal proceedings in the future. Although pre-petition claims against us have been generally stayed while the Chapter 11 Cases are pending, we may not be successful in ultimately discharging or satisfying such claims. The ultimate outcome of any such matters, including our ability to have these matters satisfied and discharged in the bankruptcy proceeding, cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that may potentially result from any negative outcomes be reasonably estimated presently. The liability we may ultimately incur with respect to such matters in the event of a negative outcome may potentially be material to our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. On November 25, 2008, a jury in the Southern District of Texas found General Maritime Management (Portugal) L.D.A., a subsidiary of GMR (“GMM Portugal”), and two vessel officers of the Genmar Defiance guilty of violating the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships and 18 USC 1001. The conviction resulted from charges based on alleged incidents occurring on board the Genmar Defiance arising from potential failures by shipboard staff to properly record discharges of bilge waste during the period of November 24, 2007 through November 26, 2007. Pursuant to the sentence imposed by the Court on March 13, 2009, GMM Portugal paid a $1 million fine in April 2009 and is subject to a probationary period of five years. During this period, a court-appointed monitor will monitor and audit GMM Portugal’s compliance with its environmental compliance plan, and GMM Portugal is required to designate a responsible corporate officer to submit monthly reports to, and respond to inquiries from, the court’s probation department. The court stated that, should GMM Portugal engage in future conduct in violation of its probation, it may, under appropriate circumstances, ban certain of our vessels from calling on U.S. ports. Any violations of probation may also result in additional penalties, costs or sanctions being imposed on us. On or about August 29, 2007, an oil sheen was discovered by shipboard personnel of the Genmar Progress in Guayanilla Bay, Puerto Rico in the vicinity of the vessel. We understand that U.S. federal and Puerto Rico authorities are conducting civil investigations into an oil pollution incident which occurred during this time period on the southwest coast of Puerto Rico including Guayanilla Bay. The extent to which oil discharged from the Genmar Progress is responsible for this incident is currently the subject of investigation. The U.S. Coast Guard has designated the Genmar Progress as a potential source of discharged oil. Under the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the source of the discharge is liable, regardless of fault, for damages and oil spill remediation as a result of the discharge. 46 In January 2009, we received a demand from the U.S. National Pollution Fund for approximately $5.8 million for the U.S. Coast Guard’s response costs and certain costs of the Departamento de Recursos Naturales y Ambientales of Puerto Rico in connection with the alleged damage to the environment caused by the spill. In April 2010, the U.S. National Pollution Fund made an additional natural resource damage assessment claim against us of approximately $0.5 million. In October 2010, we entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. National Pollution Fund in which we paid approximately $6.3 million in full satisfaction of the oil spill response costs of the U.S. Coast Guard and natural damage assessment costs of the U.S. National Pollution Fund through the date of the settlement agreement. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the U.S. National Pollution Fund will waive its claims to any additional civil penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act as well as for accrued interest. Notwithstanding the settlement agreement, we may be subject to any further potential claims by the U.S. National Pollution Fund or the U.S. Coast Guard arising from the ongoing natural damage assessment. We have been cooperating in these investigations and have posted a surety bond to cover potential fines or penalties that may be imposed in connection with these matters. These matters have been reported to our protection and indemnity insurance underwriters. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR FINANCINGS We have incurred significant indebtedness which could affect our ability to finance our operations, pursue desirable business opportunities and successfully run our business in the future, and therefore make it more difficult for us to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness. We have incurred substantial debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had $890.3 million of indebtedness outstanding and an additional $463.5 million of indebtedness that had been classified as liabilities subject to compromise. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, we had $35 million, net of outstanding letters of credit, available for additional borrowing under our DIP Facility. On December 15, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered a final order in connection with the DIP Facility (the “Final Order”), permitting the DIP Borrowers access to the DIP Facility, subject to the terms and conditions of the DIP Facility and related orders of the Bankruptcy Court. The DIP Facility provides us with (i) a revolving credit facility of up to $35 million and (ii) a term loan facility of up to $40 million. The DIP Facility also provides for an incremental facility to increase the commitments under the Revolving Facility by up to $25 million, subject to compliance with specified conditions. As of December 31, 2011, we had borrowed $40 million under the DIP Facility. Our substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to us, including: · limiting our ability to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations in other areas of our business, including for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities, because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; · requiring us to seek to incur further indebtedness in order to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments planned by us to the extent our future cash flows are insufficient; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and the execution of our growth strategy, and other expenses or investments planned by us; · limiting our flexibility and our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation, our business and our industry; · limiting our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness (which could result in an event of default if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness); · increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in our business and to adverse economic and industry conditions generally; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; · limiting our ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness; and · limiting our ability to enter into hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. 47 Our ability to continue to fund our debt requirements and to reduce debt may be affected by general economic, financial market, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things. An inability to fund our debt requirements, reduce debt or satisfy debt covenant requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, financial, business, industry and other factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as charter rates, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy or competitive initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: · refinancing or restructuring our debt; · selling tankers or other assets; · reducing or delaying investments and capital expenditures; or · seeking to raise additional capital. However, we cannot assure you that undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, would be successful in allowing us to meet our debt obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our financing arrangements impose significant operating and financial restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. Our financing arrangements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries. These restrictions will limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, as applicable: · incur additional debt and provide additional guarantees; · pay dividends or make other restricted payments, including certain investments; · create or permit certain liens; · sell tankers or other assets; · create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; · engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and · consolidate or merge with or into other companies, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing arrangements could result in a default under those arrangements and under other arrangements containing cross-default provisions. In addition, the limitations 48 imposed by any financing arrangements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. These restrictions could also limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. If we default on our obligations to pay any of our indebtedness, we may be subject to restrictions on the payment of our other debt obligations or cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in any agreement governing our indebtedness, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such event of default: · the lenders or holders of such indebtedness could elect to terminate our commitments thereunder, declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; · even if those lenders or holders do not institute foreclosure procedures against our assets, they may be able to cause all of our available cash to be used to repay the indebtedness owed to them; and · such event of default could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration under our other indebtedness. We may not be able to obtain exit financing. The Plan is predicated, among other things, on obtaining the Exit Facilities. We have not yet received a commitment with respect to the Exit Facilities, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the Exit Facilities. If we cannot secure exit financing, the Plan cannot be confirmed. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. Our debt under our 2011 Credit Facility and 2010 Amended Credit Facility bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 400 basis points. The Oaktree Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum based on LIBOR (with a 3% minimum) plus a margin of 6% per annum if the payment of interest will be in cash, or a margin of 9% if the payment of interest will be in kind, at the option of General Maritime Subsidiary and General Maritime Subsidiary II. The principal amounts outstanding under the DIP Facility bear interest based on the adjusted Eurodollar Rate (which includes a floor of 1.50%) plus 6.50% per annum. We may also incur indebtedness in the future with variable interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. LIBOR and Eurodollar rates have recently been stable, but the spread between those rates and prime lending rates can widen significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by amounts that we may drawdown under our credit facilities fluctuate with changes in the LIBOR and Eurodollar rates, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on amounts that we were to drawdown from our credit facility, which in turn, would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We are currently party to two interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our 2011 Credit Facility which was advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Since our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes we recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our income statement. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $4.8 million. 49 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Anti-takeover provisions in our financing agreements and organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several of our financing agreements impose restrictions on changes of control of our company and our ship-owning subsidiaries. These include requirements that we obtain the lenders’ consent prior to any change of control and that we make an offer to redeem certain indebtedness before a change of control can take place. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · prohibiting us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless certain provisions are met; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. Our incorporation under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands may limit the ability of our shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act. The provisions of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act. For example, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Although the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and most of our subsidiaries are organized in the Republic of Liberia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based upon these laws. 50 Under the Plan, affiliates of Oaktree will own a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, and as a result could exert significant influence over the Company. Under the Plan, affiliates of Oaktree will beneficially own approximately 82% to 100% of our outstanding common stock as of the effective date of the Plan. As a result, they would be in a position to control the outcome of all actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, without the approval of other shareholders. This concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder a negotiated change of control of us and, consequently, have an impact upon the value of our common stock. Further, one or more of the holders of a significant number of shares of our common stock may determine to sell all or a large portion of their shares in a short period of time, which may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 