Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Description of Property Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholders matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 8 Financial Statements Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matter Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures 1 INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Unless the context requires otherwise, “we,” “us”, “our” or “the Company” refers to Biomedical Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Company’s subsidiaries include Biomedical Technology Solutions, Inc., BMTS Properties, Inc., BMTS Leasing, LLC and Healthcare Sales Professionals, Inc. This discussion contains forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995), and information relating to the Company that is based on beliefs of management of the Company, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management of the Company. When used in this Proxy Statement, the words “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “could,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events based on currently available information and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in such forward-looking statements. Read ers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BioMedical Technology Solutions, Inc., (“BMTS”) was formed in May 2005 as a Colorado corporation to market and distribute on-site, bio-medical waste treatment technology that had been developed, patented, and initially marketed by Thermal Waste Technologies, Inc., ("TWT"). Accordingly, BMTS acquired the intellectual property rights and existing customer base for the original and patented alternative infectious waste treatment system, the Demolizer®. Through extensive research and development over the past three years, the DemolizerÒ II System and consumable sharps and red bag collectors have been upgraded to incorporate enhanced process controls, safety features, and integrated quality systems. BMTS is an environmental technology company that markets and sells efficient, environmentally safe, and cost effective, infectious waste treatment systems. BMTS believes that its infectious waste treatment system technology offers solutions for numerous users in the industrialized world as well as in the public health and environmental areas in developing world markets. The Company’s principal office is located at 9800 Mt. Pyramid Court, Suite 350, Englewood, Colorado 80112. 2 PRODUCTS The DemolizerÒ II System sterilizes medical waste through a dry heat cycle. Health care providers replace their present sharps and red bag waste containers with BMTS’ DemolizerÒ collectors, which are used the exact same way. Once the DemolizerÒ collector is full, instead of placing it in a storage area for pickup by a third party hauler, the collector is placed in the DemolizerÒ II System for processing. The operator completes a simple key entry sequence and the collector is sterilized over a 2-2.5 hour cycle. After the completed process, the collector is labeled and disposed of as common trash. The contents of the collector are sterile and the sharps have been rendered non-reusable (through the melting of the plastic syringe components). The System has been designed to be odorless, noise-free, and safe, with all emissions demonstrated to be bacteria-free. To date, over 325,000 treatment cycles have been logged on the DemolizerÒ technology. Key Elements of the DemolizerÒ Technology The sterilization efficacy of the DemolizerÒ technology has been validated through numerous trials including studies at Kansas State University and Stanford University. The technology meets or exceeds all published standards for disinfection in the U.S., including recommendations from the U.S. EPA, the CDC, and various state Departments of Health and the Environment. In validation studies, the following organisms have been shown to be inactivated at a minimum level of 6 log10 upon treatment using the Demolizer® technology: Staphylococcus aureus Escherchia coli Mycobacterium bovis Mycobacterium fortuitum Mycobacterium phlei Candida albicans Bacillus subtilis Psuedomonas aeruginosa Giardia Duck Hepatitus B Virus The recently upgraded DemolizerÒ II System incorporates smart systems to ensure that every treatment cycle completes successfully. The upgraded electronic systems continually monitor critical process parameters and only allow process certification labels to print and the door to unlock if all the treatment parameters have been satisfied. Memory devices store process data on-board for each cycle, as well as more comprehensive data on the most recently completed cycles. This allows periodic system performance testing and system diagnostics. 3 In the U.S., the DemolizerÒ II System is equipped with a modem that contacts the DemolizerÒ Quality Systems database monthly to download on-board memory. The smart system is flexible and adaptable for international use: · Features support other data management configurations · LED displayed in any language · Runs with either 110V or 220V standard electrical power · CSA and CE rated against worldwide standards · Labels can be printed in any language MARKETS The company’s key markets/applications for its products are as follows: 1. Patient Care · Medical Offices · Dental Offices · Urgent Care Centers · Nursing Homes · Assisted Living Facilities 2. Health Care · School health Clinics · Public Health Facilities · First Aid Stations · Home Health Care · Pharmacies · Military · Public Health: Airports, Hospitality, Cruise Ships, Train Stations, and Sports and Entertainment Arenas · Developing World Healthcare 3. Veterinary Care · Veterinary Hospitals · Emergency Veterinary Care · Livestock Medicine · Equine Medicine · Zoos · Sanctuaries 4 SALES STRATEGY We plan to aggressively pursue both commercial and developing world opportunities. To capture these market opportunities, we are currently pursuing the following sales strategies: · Establish Healthcare Sales Professionals (“HCSP”), a subsidiary sales and marketing organization, to support the distribution channel, generate qualified leads, and provide in-field sales support; · Through HCSP, secure market and distribution rights to best-of-class complimentary products within the BMTS market sectors; · Establish strategic partnerships with several large distributors in four of the largest market segments, including long term care/nursing homes, physician networks and clinics, dental and veterinary industries; and · Target large national accounts through a direct sales initiative. · Develop a regional distribution program in order to fill in and cover the balance of the U.S. marketplace. Our distribution arrangements are covered by written non-exclusive agreements with the various distributors which provide for varying terms ranging from one to three years with automatic renewals. However, each of the agreements is also terminable be either party upon 90 days’ notice. We plan to expand our sales and marketing expenses over the next several quarters. These anticipated expenses will include but are not limited to, additional sales and marketing personnel, trade show expenses, marketing literature, etc. HCSP, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a “hybrid” sales and marketing organization designed to represent domestic and international manufacturing partners and their products in the U.S. Healthcare markets. HCSP provides an inside and outside infrastructure to support manufacturing partners in facilitating sales, support, market data, reporting and technical service. HCSP introduces and supports product(s) in any or all of the four major healthcare markets (medical, dental, long term care and veterinary). At the manufacture’s (client’s) discretion, HCSP has the ability to engage traditional distribution channels and/or sell products directly to the end user. HCSP has established industry relationships with the top distribution organizations in the U.S. and has a proprietary in house database consisting of end user records. HCSP will utilize two dedicated sales teams to capture market share , introduce new products, and drive results for their manufacturer clients. HCSP’s current product portfolio consists of the Demolizer II®; a cost-effective system for low to medium volume medical waste generators as described above. HCSP is also the exclusive manufacture representative for the elexxion claros nano® soft tissue diode laser in the U.S. and Canada. Patterson Dental, one of the two largest U.S. dental distributors, has an exclusive distribution agreement with elexxion in the U.S. and Canada. This agreement brings instant credibility to the HCSP model and provides for a balanced triangular relationship. 5 The elexxion claros nano® laser can be used for a wide variety of soft tissue indications including precision gingival troughing that can allow for immediate impression taking. With the claros nano® laser, you can perform numerous other surgical, periodontic, endodontic and orthodontic procedures. Customers can accomplish procedures faster and their patients can heal faster, increasing productivity and patient comfort. In 2009, HCSP expects to bring on additional comprehensive and technologically advanced lines of equipment that covers the medical, dental and veterinary markets. These products will have distinct competitive advantages over other products in their respective categories. The product mix is broad enough that every healthcare segment is being engaged, there is the appropriate allocation of products that are sold through traditional distribution channels, and those that are sold direct to end users, and finally, the features/assets/benefits are a significant differentiator on their own. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our research and development costs for the past two years have not been material. However, we plan to expand our development efforts and anticipate the following product releases in late 2009: · BMTS is developing a green version of the Demolizerâ technology, the DemolizerÒ II G. This upgraded model will allow for the complete recycling of the sharps waste load significantly limiting the amount of waste that is eventually deposited in a landfill. · BMTS is currently developing a low-cost version of our Demolizerâ technology to address the needs of the growing Home Health/Consumer Market. · BMTS is also in the process of developing an international portable system in order to address third world health care needs in remote locations. MANUFACTURING In the past the final box assembly of the Demolizer® II System was conducted at qualified contract manufacturers. As of 2009 Q1, we moved manufacturing activities in house. As a result of the Company transitioning manufacturing in house, a VP of Engineering and assembly personnel have been hired by the Company. Additional assembly personnel along with indirect manufacturing support personnel will be hired as demand for Demolizer products increase. Manufacturing personnel is readily available in the area. Over time, we may partner with additional manufacturers, if warranted, both domestic and overseas to ensure price competitiveness, high quality standards and overall production stability. The component level parts required to manufacture the Demolizer generally have lead times of less than four weeks depending upon volumes. 6 INTELLUECTUAL PROPERTY The original technology was patented in the U.S. and Australia in 1999. In 2006, we filed provisional patents on the newly designed collectors and the upgraded system. In 2007, we filed U.S. and international patents, broadly covering the world on both the collectors and the upgraded system. We have also secured trademarks for the Demolizer®. The Company’s United States patents and trademarks are listed below: Patent #5,972,291 for Demolizer technology Trademark Registration #3,332,271 for DEMOLIZER II Trademark Registration #3,205,687 for BMTS BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS, INC. Trademark Registration #3,205,688 for BMTS SOLUTION Trademark Registration #3,193,459 for DEMOLIZER Our trademarks and domain names play an important role in expanding the awareness of its products. While we have obtained or applied for registration of its trademarks and registered domain names in an effort to protect them, its efforts may be inadequate to prevent others from claiming violations of their marks and may be inadequate to protect our use of those names as unique. In addition, trademark protection and the uncertainty surrounding the legal protections of domain names may be unenforceable or limited in other countries, and the global nature of the internet makes it impossible to control the ultimate destination of our communications. The regulation of web addresses in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain its web addresses in the future. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing such addresses and the laws pro tecting trademarks is unsettled. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, domain names and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. We also seek to protect its proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with its subcontractors, vendors, suppliers, consultants, strategic partners and employees. We cannot provide any assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that it would have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions would not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Some of the additional limitations of intellectual property protection are: · No assurance can be given that any patent will be issued or that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or that any patent, if issued, will be held valid if subsequently challenged. · When we apply for registration of trademarks and registered domain names in an effort to protect them, we cannot be sure of the nature or extent of the protection afforded, since trademark registration does not assure any enforceable rights under many circumstances and there exists significant uncertainty surrounding legal protections of domain names. 7 · There can be no assurance that any steps BMTS takes in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of its proprietary rights or independent third parties developing functionally equivalent products. Despite precautions, unauthorized parties may attempt to engineer, reverse engineer, copy, or obtain and use BMTS’s products or other information. · Although management of BMTS believes that BMTS’s products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that an infringement claim will not be asserted in the future. The prosecution or defense of any intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive and would place a material burden upon BMTS’s working capital. COMPETITION Management of BMTS believes that most low to medium volume biomedical waste generators in the U.S. use either a local or national biomedical waste management services company to handle, transport, and dispose of their medical waste. The cost of this service fluctuates depending upon regulation, competition, and industry consolidation, leaving the customer extremely vulnerable to price increases. As a benchmark for a small to medium size medical office, monthly costs for transport and treatment services can range from $300 to $1,000 per month based on anecdotal information, before adding the cost of sharps containers and other consumables, based on the frequency of pickup and other competitive factors. It has been shown, through cost analysis and information collected from current Demolizer® customers, that the Demolizer® II System delivers significant monthly cost savings compared to third par ty treatment and hauling companies. BMTS believes that none of the commercially available competitive products meet the needs of low to medium volume generators in a cost effective manner. COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES OF BMTS Based upon marketing research conducted by BMTS, we believe the DemolizerÒ II System is the only on-site, treatment technology that delivers all of the following major user benefits: · Sterilizes and safely disposes of sharps and typical red bag waste; · Completely sterilizes medical waste in a 2-2.5-hour cycle, including the destruction of pathogens, bacteria, spores, and viruses, with the processed collectors disposed of as common trash; · Reduces biomedical waste hauling costs up to 100%; · Meets all EPA, CDC and OSHA standards and is either formally approved or meets the requirements for medical waste treatment and disposal in 47 U.S. states after comprehensive review by 78 governmental agencies at the federal, state and local (city/county) level; · Incorporates a one-of-a-kind, integrated quality control system that meets or exceeds all U.S. requirements for documentation and performance monitoring; · Is easy to use with no special facility requirements; and 8 · Designed to operate in any country by virtue of its CE rating. BMTS’s technology also provides a number of environmental advantages, as follows: · Reduces the amount of medical waste incinerated worldwide, helping to reduce the effects of global warming; · Reduces dioxin and other hazardous emissions; · Prevents dangerous reuse of sharps; · Prevents accidental “needle sticks” from improper disposal; and · Eliminates the disposal of bio-hazardous waste in landfills. Further, management of BMTS believes that the Demolizer® technology is the only on-site alternative treatment technology that has passed an EPA microbial survivability test for medical waste incinerator emissions. (All airflow emitted from the unit was demonstrated to be free of bioaerosols). TWT also obtained FDA 510(k) pre-market clearance for commercial distribution of the Demolizer® sharps collectors to clinical and laboratory healthcare settings. BMTS is an FDA inspected facility and in April 2007, BMTS successfully completed an FDA audit of its quality systems. REGULATORY The DemolizerÒ System is either formally approved or meets the requirements for medical waste treatment and disposal in 47 U.S. states, involving exhaustive review by 78 government agencies at the federal, state, and local (county/city) level. Final approval is pending in the remaining states. The delays are primarily due to pending changes in state rules and limited personnel resources at the state level. Many of these approvals have been in place for nearly eight years. Regulatory and environmental pressures on medical providers and the waste industry have increased substantially, particularly in the area of emissions from incineration operations, leading to the closure of incineration facilities nationwide. Management of BMTS believes there is a significant demand for alternative technologies to address the needs of bio-medical waste generators to meet OSHA regulations, EPA and state laws, and to manage the spread of infectious diseases such as AIDS and Hepatitis-B. EMPLOYEES The Company employees 16 individuals on a full-time basis. We also rely on the consulting services for various part-time service functions such as IT, product and design review and marketing and public relations. 9 RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN 2008 Effective August 21, 2008, CET Services, Inc. a California corporation ("CET") consummated an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") between and among CET, CET Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the CET ("CETAC"), and what is now, as a result of the merger, our wholly-owned subsidiary, BioMedical Technology Solutions, Inc., a Colorado corporation ("BMTS"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, CETAC merged with and into BMTS and all outstanding shares of BMTS common stock and warrants were automatically converted into shares of common stock and warrants of CET. As a result of the transaction, BMTS became the wholly-owned subsidiary of CET. Concurrently with the consummation of the merger transaction, CET effected a one-for-three (1-for-3) reverse split of all of its outstanding securities (the "Reverse Split"). The Reverse Split was approved by FINRA on September 3, 2008. In addition, CET effected a redomestication from the State of California to the State of Colorado and changed its name to "BioMedical Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc." Trading is conducted and quotation on the OTC Electronic Bulletin Board is under the ticker symbol “BMTL”. TERMS OF MERGER The Merger Agreement provided for consummation of the following principal transactions, all of which were completed on August 21, 2008: * CETAC merged with and into BMTS with BMTS being the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. * Upon consummation of the merger, all outstanding shares of BMTS common stock were converted automatically into an aggregate of 78,133,757 shares of common stock of CET and all BMTS warrants became exercisable to purchase an aggregate of approximately 10,022,404 shares of common stock of CET. The shares of common stock and warrants issued upon consummation of the merger represented immediately following the merger approximately ninety-four percent (94%) of the total issued and outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, on a fully diluted basis. 10 Sale of Certain Assets Concurrently with the foregoing, CET sold to Steven Davis and Craig Barto, former Directors of the CET, all of its interest in its former wholly-owned subsidiary Community Builders, Inc. Community Builders was a controlled subsidiary that owned CET’s remaining real property interests. In the transaction, Community Builders conveyed to BMTS its interest in property located at 1550 S. Idalia Court, Aurora, CO and retained its interest in property held by Arizona Avenue LLC and property located at 7335 Lowell Blvd. and 7215 Mead Street, both in Westminster, CO. Those properties are currently owned by BMTS Properties, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary, and are being held for development or resale. In consideration of the foregoing, Messrs. Davis and Barto paid to CET the sum of $656,000, of which $510,000 was paid at Closing and the balance of $146,000 was evidenced by a Promissory Note in favor of BMTS guaranteed by Messrs. D avis and Barto, due and payable December 31, 2008. The Promissory Note was paid in full in January 2009. Redomestication and Name Change As part of the closing, CET completed a redomestication from the State of California to the State of Colorado. The redomestication was accomplished by the merger of CET with and into a newly-formed holding company, BioMedical Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. which was formed and organized under the laws of the State of Colorado. As a consequence of the Merger, BioMedical Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc., as the surviving entity, now serves as the public holding company for BMTS. Change in Officers and Directors As part of the Merger and redomestication, all of the officers and directors of CET resigned and were replaced by the following affiliates of BMTS: Board of Directors: Executive Officers: Donald G. Cox Donald G. Cox, CEO & President Gex F. Richardson Jim Scheifly, Chief Financial Officer (resigned effective February 2009). William Sparks. Gex F. Richardson, Secretary ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our potential for future success. We were formed in May 2005. To date, we have generated limited revenues and do not expect to generate significant revenues until we sell a larger number of our products. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies like ours in an evolving market, primarily our significant capital requirements. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business will be materially harmed. 11 Although the Demolizer® II system is fully developed and has received regulatory approval across the U.S., we may not be able to demonstrate true market value, and sustain profitability in the future. As we strive to grow our business, we expect to spend significant funds for general corporate purposes, including working capital and marketing, and for research and development. To the extent that our revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, our results of operations and liquidity will be materially and adversely affected. If we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may never achieve profitability. Our Demolizer® II systems may contain component, manufacturing or design defects or may not meet performance criteria established by customers, which could cause us to incur significant repair expenses, harm our customer relationships and industry reputation, and reduce our revenues and profitability. We may experience manufacturing problems with our products. As a result of component, manufacturing or design defects, we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products, incurring significant expenses as a result. In addition, any component, manufacturing or design defect could cause us to lose customers or revenues or damage our customer relationships and industry reputation. The Company's existing products may not be able in the future to meet changes in environmental laws and regulations regarding regulated medical waste. The future of our business will depend on our ability to respond to any future changes in the federal, state and local regulatory environment. Since the Company does not itself generate medical waste and is not itself in control of, nor does it handle, the medical waste but only sells its equipment to its customers, it is not itself currently subject to regulations with respect to the disposal of regulated medical waste; however, any change in this regulatory regime in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. We may not be able to deliver our Demolizer® II system’s as quickly as customers may require, which could cause us to lose sales and would harm our reputation. We may not be able to deliver our Demolizer® II systems to our customers at the times they require. Manufacturing delays and interruptions can occur for many reasons, including, but not limited to: · the failure of a supplier to deliver needed components on a timely basis or with acceptable quality; · lack of sufficient capacity; · equipment failures; · manufacturing personnel shortages; · labor disputes; 12 · transportation disruptions; · changes in import/export regulations; · natural disasters; · acts of terrorism; and · political instability. These factors may impact our component manufacturers, over whom we exercise no direct control. If we fail to deliver products in a timely fashion, our reputation may be harmed; existing orders may be jeopardized; and we may lose potential future sales. We are in the process of transferring our manufacturing of the Demolizer® II in house from a contract manufacturer. In the past we relied upon contract manufacturers for the manufacture of the Demolizer® II. In 2009 Q1, we transferred manufacturing in house. With the recent transfer to in house manufacturing we could encounter delays and difficulties in the manufacturing of our products which could substantially harm our product marketing efforts. There are limited sources of supply for some key Demolizer® II system components. Business disruptions, financial difficulties of the manufacturers or suppliers of these components, or raw material shortages could increase the cost of our goods sold or reduce the availability of these components. To date, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of product. If sales accelerate, we may experience a rapid and substantial increase in our need for units. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of required units, we could experience signifi cant customer dissatisfaction, which could result in the loss of orders and customers, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the cost of units increases, we may not be able to pass on price increases to our customers if we are to remain competitively priced. This would reduce profit, which in turn would reduce the value of your investment. Our failure to obtain additional financing, if needed, would adversely affect our business results. We will require additional financing to fund ongoing operations if our sales and revenue growth are insufficient to meet our operating costs. Financing for all of our activities to date has been provided by private sales of our securities and the merger with CET. Additional financing may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, shareholders may incur dilution, and this dilution may be substantial. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, scale back operations or otherwise limit our marketing and distribution efforts and/or the manufacture or sale of Demolizer® II systems, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and reduce the value of your investment. 13 We rely heavily upon independent distributors to market our product. Those distributors also market other medical and health care products, including other products that may be competitive with ours. As a result, distributors over whom we exercise little control can significantly influence the degree to which consumers buy our products. We distribute our products through a network of independent distributors for resale to ultimate end users. Accordingly, we are dependent upon these distributors to sell our product and to assist us in creating demand for, and promoting market acceptance of our products. There can be no assurance that our distributors will devote the resources necessary to provide effective sales and promotional support to us. Because our distributors also distribute other products, it is imperative that we undertake adequate efforts to train and motivate our distributors to promote our products over others. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this effort. A disruption of our distributors or the termination by any major distributor could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. While we have formal written distribution agreements with our distributors; most distribution arrangements can be terminated by the distributor on 90 days’ notice. A down-turn in the performance or loss of a single distributor can have a material adverse impact on sales and, as a result, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent we engage in marketing and distribution activities outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, trade restrictions and political, economic and social instability. To the extent we market and distribute the Demolizer® II in foreign markets, we will be subject to various risks associated with conducting business abroad. A foreign government may require us to obtain export licenses or may impose trade barriers or tariffs that could limit our ability to build our international presence. Our operations in some markets also may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in foreign countries, including terrorism. To the extent that we attempt to expand our sales efforts in international markets, we may also face difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles and problems with collecting accounts receivable and increased risks of piracy and limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. We currently do not have any transactions denominated in foreign currencies. In the future, transacti ons denominated in foreign currencies may not be hedged and therefore will be subject to the risk of changes in exchange rates. If we are unable to adequately address the risks of doing business abroad and build an international presence, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. 14 There may be claims made against us for personal injury and business losses which may subject us to litigation and related costs. We anticipate that the Demolizer® II will be utilized in a variety of industrial and other settings and will be used to handle materials resulting from the generation of biomedical waste. The equipment will, therefore, be subject to risks of breakdowns and malfunctions, and it is possible that claims for personal injury and business losses arising out of these breakdowns and malfunctions will be made against us. While we have obtained product liability insurance, our insurance may be insufficient to provide coverage against all claims or for claims made for amounts substantially in excess of applicable policy limits. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with government regulations will severely limit our sales opportunities and future revenues. We and our customers may be required to comply with a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental controls, including without limitation, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, which may require our prospective working partners or our customers to obtain permits or approvals to utilize the Demolizer® II and related equipment on job sites. Since we intend to market the Demolizer® II internationally, we will be required to comply with foreign laws and regulations and, when applicable, obtain permits in other countries. We cannot be certain that required permits and approvals will be obtained or that new environmental regulations will not be enacted or that if they are, we and our customers can meet stricter standards of operation or obtain additional operating permits or a pprovals. Furthermore, particularly in the environmental remediation market, we may be required to conduct performance and operating studies to assure government agencies that the Demolizer® II and its by-products are not environmental risks. There is no assurance that these studies will not be more costly or time-consuming than anticipated or will produce acceptable conclusions. Failure to obtain operating permits, or otherwise to comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements, could affect our ability to market and sell our Demolizer® II and could substantially reduce the market price of our common stock. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property. Our success and the competitiveness of our products are heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology and our ability to protect our current and future technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because such laws provide only limited protection. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to duplicate aspects of our technologies and manufacturing processes or the current or future products or technologies of our business and manufacturing processes or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. This could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary rights is difficult, and some international laws do not protect 15 proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation periodically may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation is costly and may not be successful. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology or manufacturing processes could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. While we have one patent and several patent applications pending, there is no assurance that any existing patents will not be challenged or patent applications filed by us in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Furthermore, there is no assurance as to the breadth and degree of protection any issued patents might afford our intellectual property. Disputes may arise between us and others as to the scope and validity of these or other patents. Any defense of the patents could prove costly and time consuming and there can be no assurance that we will be in a position, or will deem it advisable, to carry on such a defense. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents are issued, and the publication of discoveries in the scientific literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we will be the first creator of future inventions for which we seek patents or the first to file patent applications for any of our inventions. Patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures which differ from those of the United States. We cannot be certain that: · patents will be issued from future applications; · any future patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; · foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property; or · others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents which may be issued to us. Generally, we enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure of intellectual property agreements with our employees, consultants and many of our vendors and distributors, and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar information independently. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult. The laws of other countries may afford little or no effective protection of our technology. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology, which may cause us to lose customers and revenue opportunities. In addition, pursuing persons who might misappropriate our intellectual property could be costly and divert the attention of our management fro m the operation of our business. 16 Intellectual property infringement claims by third parties could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Other individuals and/or entities may have filed applications for, or may have been issued, patents and may obtain additional patents and other proprietary rights to technology used by us or otherwise potentially useful or necessary to us. The scope and validity of such patents, if any, the extent to which we may wish or need to acquire the rights to such patents, and the cost and availability of such rights are presently unknown. We may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, including third party rights in patents that have not yet been issued. If we do infringe, the holder of the patent may seek to cause us to cease using the technology subject to the patent, or require us to enter into a license or other similar agreement and pay for our use of the intellectual property. In either case, such event may have a material negative impact on our performance. Also, since we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, there is no assurance that others may not acquire or independently develop the same or similar technology. We do not believe that any of our technologies or products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. Nevertheless, third parties may claim infringement with respect to our current or future technologies or products or products manufactured by others and incorporating our technologies. Responding to any such claims, whether or not they are found to have merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause development delays, require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, or require us to cease using the technology that is the intellectual property of a third party. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, infringement claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are dependent on key personnel and our business would be disrupted if we are unable to retain and expand our management team. Our success is highly dependent on the continued service of Donald Cox, our founder, President and CEO, and on the ability to attract and retain, qualified engineering, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and senior management personnel. The loss of any key employees or principal members of management could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Further, if we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as needed, we may not be able to adequately manage and implement plans for our expansion and growth. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 