ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ADDITIONAL FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and observations. Included among the factors that, in our view, could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are the following: (i) loss or reduction in business from our significant customers; (ii) the failure of our significant customers to perform their obligations owed to us; (iii) changes in demand; (iv) a material decline or prolonged weakness in rates in the tanker market; (v) changes in production of or demand for oil and petroleum products, generally or in particular regions; (vi) greater than anticipated levels of tank er newbuilding orders or lower than anticipated rates of tanker scrapping; (vii) changes in rules and regulations applicable to the tanker industry, including, without limitation, legislation adopted by international organizations such as the International Maritime Organization and the European Union or by individual countries; (viii) actions taken by regulatory authorities; (ix) actions by the courts, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Department of Justice or other governmental authorities and the results of the legal proceedings to which we or any of our vessels may be subject; (x) changes in trading patterns significantly impacting overall tanker tonnage requirements; (xi) changes in the typical seasonal variations in tanker charter rates; (xii) changes in the cost of other modes of oil transportation; (xiii) changes in oil transportation technology; (xiv) increases in costs including without limitation: crew wages, insurance, provisions, repairs and maintenance; (xv) changes in general domestic and international political conditions; (xvi) changes in the condition of our vessels or applicable maintenance or regulatory standards (which may affect, among other things, our anticipated drydocking or maintenance and repair costs); (xvii) changes in the itineraries of the our vessels; (xviii) adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting our expenses; (xix) the fulfillment of the closing conditions under, or the execution of customary additional documentation for, the Company’s agreements to acquire vessels and contemplated financing arrangements; (xx) sourcing, completion and funding of financing on acceptable terms; (xxi) financial market conditions; and (xxii) other factors listed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 14 We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business, including market, financial, operational, legal and regulatory risks. Below, we have described certain important risks that could affect our business. These risks and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS & OPERATIONS We are pursuing debt and equity financings to meet our commitments during this year. As of December 31, 2010, we had total commitments for contractual obligations in 2011 of $316.2 million, including: $82.8 million of interest anticipated to be payable under our debt agreements, based on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2010; an obligation for principal payments under our credit facilities aggregating $160.0 million of which $106.7 million will be due under our 2005 Credit Facility and $30.5 million will be due under our 2010 Credit Facility; and a payment of $68.4 million due upon delivery of the final Metrostar Vessel expected in April 2011. We intend to fund approximately $45.6 million of this payment through a drawdown under our 2010 Credit Facility. Our cash resources alone are not sufficient for us to meet our obligations during the coming year, including those described above. Furthermore, we believe that it is probable, absent amendments or waivers to our credit fac ilities or obtaining additional financing, that we will not comply with the Net Debt-to-EBITDA maintenance covenants under our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility at or prior to the fourth quarter of 2011, and we may not be able to continue to comply with the minimum cash balance covenant due to continued weakness in charter rates and/or the timing of receipt of payments and required expenditures, in each case without additional financing or a waiver or amendment of the credit facilities. Because the 2010 Credit Facility requires us to have raised cash proceeds from the issuance of common stock in an amount equal to at least 40% of the purchase price of all delivered Metrostar Vessels by September 30, 2011, we are also required to raise at least $52.4 million of additional equity by that date. We continue to be subject to a difficult charter rate environment, which has negatively impacted our cash flow from operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated in their report, set forth below in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, that these matters raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We are seeking additional liquidity through potential amendments or refinancings of our existing credit facilities and/or issuances of debt or equity. We may also consider future vessel sales, additional debt or equity offerings, seek waivers or extensions of our obligations under our existing credit facilities and other options. In particular, as described under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources,” on March 29, 2011, the Company, General Maritime Subsidiary Corporation and General Maritime Subsidiary II Corporation entered into the Oaktree Credit Agreement with affiliates of Oaktree, pursuant to which the Oaktree Lender has agreed to make a $200 million investment in the Oaktree Notes to be issued by General Maritime Subsidiary Corporation and General Maritime Subsidiary II Corporation, along with Warrants issued by us for the purchase of up to 19.9% of our outstanding common stock (measured as of immediately prior to the closing date of the Oaktree Transaction) at an exercise price of $0.01 per share. We plan to use the proc eeds from the Oaktree Transactions to repay a portion of our existing credit facilities. The Oaktree Credit Agreement is guaranteed by certain funds managed by Oaktree. The Oaktree Lender will be a newly formed entity with a de minimis amount of cash as its sole asset. To the extent that the Oaktree Lender breaches its obligation to make the loans upon the satisfaction of the conditions to closing for the Oaktree Credit Agreement, the guarantors would guarantee the payment of the Oaktree Lender’s obligations to extend the loans and the performance, payment and discharge of the obligation of the Oaktree Lender under the Credit Agreement and the other transaction documents through and including the closing. The maximum aggregate liability of the guarantors is limited to $200 million, plus reasonable costs of enforcement and collection. The obligations of the guarantors are several and not joint. Recourse against the guarantors is the sole and exclusive remedy of the Company and the borrowers aga inst the guarantors and their affiliates under the Oaktree Credit Agreement, the Investment Agreement and other transaction documents contemplated therein. The guaranty will terminate upon the closing or termination (other than due to a material breach by the Oaktree Lender) of the Oaktree Credit Facility. The guaranty limits the ability of the Company or the borrowers to assert that any portions of the guaranty are illegal, invalid or unenforceable. In connection with the Oaktree Credit Agreement, on March 29, 2011 we also entered into an Investment Agreement with the Oaktree Lender (the “Investment Agreement”). The Oaktree Lender’s obligation to consummate the Oaktree Transactions is subject to a number of conditions, many of which are beyond our control and which may prevent, delay or otherwise materially and adversely affect completion of the Oaktree Transactions. In addition, in order to consummate the Oaktree Transactions, we will be required to refinance our 2005 Credit Facility and amend our 2010 Credit Facility. The Company is currently pursuing discussions with the lenders under its 2010 Credit Facility to amend its covenants and security and guaranty arrangements, and to permit the financing contemplated by the Oaktree Credit Agreement, as well as the proposed new revolving credit facility described below. In addition, the issuance of the Warrants (including any Warrants issued pursuant to anti-dilution protection provisions), and the issuance of shares pur suant to preemptive rights, are subject to compliance with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. However, we cannot predict whether and when any of these conditions will be satisfied. There can therefore be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the Oaktree Transactions or any other of the other financing or other transactions described above, or that doing so will be sufficient for us to meet our liquidity needs. Moreover, the issuance of the Warrants will be, and any such other financings may be, on terms that are dilutive to the interests of our shareholders. On March 21, 2011, as described under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources,” we entered into a commitment letter (the “Commitment Letter”) for a new revolving credit facility in the amount of the lesser of $550 million and 65% of the fair market value as of the closing date of the vessels to be mortgaged under such new revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the “proposed new credit facility,” to refinance our 2005 Credit Facility, to issue letters of credit and for general corporate purposes. The Commitment Letter is with Nordea Bank Finland plc, New York Branch (“Nordea”), and DnB NOR Bank ASA, which will serve as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners under the proposed new credit facility. The Commitment Letter provides that these two lead b anks would provide up to $210.4 million under the new revolving credit facility. The Commitment Letter contemplates a five-year senior secured revolving credit facility, including a $25 million letter of credit facility. The transactions contemplated by the Commitment Letter are subject to the receipt of proceeds from the Oaktree Notes, the Company obtaining commitments for the balance of the total facility amount, completion of amendments to our 2010 Credit Facility to accommodate the transactions contemplated by the Commitment Letter, and customary conditions, including completion of satisfactory documentation. Failure to complete the proposed Oaktree Transactions or enter into the proposed new credit facility or amend the 2010 Credit Facility would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits thereof. We would also remain liable for significant transaction costs. In addition, the market price of our common stock may reflect various market assumptions as to whether and when those transactions will be completed. Consequently, the completion of, the failure to complete, or any delay in the completion of these transactions could result in a significant change in the market price of our common stock. Moreover, if we do not have sufficient liquidity to service our debt, meet our contractual obligations and fund our other liquidity needs, we may be required to sell assets, negotiate with our lenders to restructure our existing credit facilities or consider other options. We cannot assure you that any of these alternat ives could, if necessary, be effected on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of our existing or future debt instruments, including the indenture governing our Senior Notes, may restrict us from engaging in some of these alternatives. If the Oaktree Transactions are consummated, we have also agreed to provide Oaktree with specified anti-dilution and preemptive rights, as described in further detail under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we close the Oaktree Transactions and thereafter consummate any transaction which would require us to grant additional warrants or other securities to Oaktree pursuant to its anti-dilution or preemptive rights, we may be required to obtain shareholder approval to do so, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain such shareholder approval. If we are unable to obtain such shareholder approval, and we fail to issue Oaktree the additional warrants or other securities otherwise required under the terms of the Warrants or the Investment Agreement, then the per annum interest rate on the Oaktree Notes will increase by two percentage points, and will thereafter increase by an additional two percentage points on each three-month anniversary thereof (subject to a maximum interest rate of 18% per annum), and will remain at such rate until we obtain such shareholder approval (if and to the extent required) and issue Oaktree the required additional warrants or other securities. Any such increase of the interest rate on the Oaktree Notes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. The current global economic turndown may negatively impact our business. In recent years, there has been a significant adverse shift in the global economy, with operating businesses facing tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and declining markets. Lower demand for tanker cargoes as well as diminished trade credit available for the delivery of such cargoes have created downward pressure on charter rates. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: · We may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or operate our vessels profitably. · The market value of our vessels could decrease significantly, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. In addition, such a decline in the market value of our vessels could prevent us from borrowing under our credit facilities or trigger a default under their covenants. · Charterers could seek to renegotiate the terms of their charters with us or have difficulty meeting their payment obligations to us. If adverse conditions in the global economy or the global credit markets or volatility in the financial markets continue or worsens, we could experience a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and the market price of our common shares could decline. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatility in charter rates and vessel values which may adversely affect our earnings. If the tanker market, which has historically been cyclical, is depressed in the future, our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to employ our vessels profitably will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market. Fluctuations in charter rates and tanker values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for petroleum and petroleum products. The factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The current global financial crisis has intensified this unpredictability. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: · supply of and demand for petroleum and petroleum products; · regional availability of refining capacity; · global, regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade and fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which tanker cargoes are transported by sea; · environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; · weather and acts of God and natural disasters, including hurricanes and typhoons; · competition from alternative sources of energy and from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation; and 15 · international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions, nationalizations, piracy and wars. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: · current and expected purchase orders for tankers; · the number of tanker newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older tankers; · conversion of tankers to other uses or conversion of other vessels to tankers; · the price of steel and vessel equipment; · technological advances in tanker design and capacity; · tanker freight rates, which are affected by factors that may affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying up of tankers; · the number of tankers that are out of service; and · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of tankers. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for tanker capacity. The recent global economic crisis may further reduce demand for transportation of oil over long distances and supply of tankers that carry oil, which may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Spot market rates for tanker vessels are highly volatile and are currently at relatively low levels historically and may further decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings in the event that our vessels are chartered in the spot market. We deploy a substantial portion of our fleet in the spot market. Although spot chartering is common in the crude and product tankers sectors, crude and product tankers charter hire rates are highly volatile and may fluctuate significantly based upon demand for seaborne transportation of crude oil and petroleum products, as well as tanker supply. The world oil demand is influenced by many factors, including international economic activity; geographic changes in oil production, processing, and consumption; oil price levels; inventory policies of the major oil and oil trading companies; and strategic inventory policies of countries such as the United States and China. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick u p cargo. Furthermore, as charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage that may last up to several weeks, during periods in which spot charter rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases. The spot market is highly volatile, and, in the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. Currently, charter hire rates are at relatively low rates historically and there is no assurance that the crude oil and product tanker charter market will recover over the next several months or will not continue to decline further. Charter rates for vessels may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings and ability to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be affected by the rate of economic growth in the world’s economy as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world’s fleet. As of December 31, 2010, five of our 16 time charter contracts will expire prior to June 30, 2011. If the tanker industry, which has been highly cyclical, continues to be depressed in the future when our charters expire or at a time when we may want to sell a vessel, our earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet our obligations including payment of debt service to our lenders. Our ability to renew the charters on our vessels o n the expiration or termination of our current charters, the charter rates payable under any replacement charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker industry at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the seaborne transportation of crude oil. A general global economic downturn or international 16 financial uncertainty may result in a weakening of charter rates. This could reduce the charter rates for our vessels not then subject to long-term charters and, thereby, negatively impact our results of operations. An over supply of new vessels may adversely affect charter rates and vessel values. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of tankers being scrapped and lost, tanker capacity will increase. In addition, we believe that the total newbuilding order books for Suezmax vessels and Aframax vessels scheduled to enter the fleet through 2012 currently are a substantial portion of the existing fleets and we cannot assure you that the order books will not increase further in proportion to the existing fleets. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline and the value of our vessels could be adversely affected. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. We seek to deploy our vessels between spot market voyage charters and time charters in a manner that maximizes long-term cash flow. As of December 31, 2010, 16 of our vessels are contractually committed to time charters, with the remaining terms of these charters expiring on dates between January 2011 and September 2012. Although these time charters generally provide stable revenues, they also limit the portion of our fleet available for spot market voyages during an upswing in the tanker industry cycle, when spot market voyages might be more profitable. We earned approximately 44.2% of our net voyage revenue from spot charters for the year ended December 31, 2010. The spot charter market is highly competitive, and spot market voyage charter rates may fluctuate dramatically based primarily on the worldwide supply of tankers available in the market for the transportation of oil and the worldwide demand for the transportation of oil by tanker. Factors affecting the volatility of spot market voyage charter rates include the quantity of oil produced globally, shifts in locations where oil is produced or consumed, actions by OPEC, the general level of worldwide economic activity and the development and use of alternative energy sources. We cannot assure you that future spot market voyage charters will be available at rates that will allow us to operate our vessels that are not under time charter profitably. The failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We employ 16 vessels under time charters with an average remaining duration of approximately eight months as of December 31, 2010. The ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the tanker industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the default by a charterer under a charter of a vessel may be considerable and this may negatively impact our business. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter agreements or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses. If our charterers attempt to renegotiate their charters or default on their charters, this may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our available cash. A decline in demand for crude oil or a shift in oil transport patterns could materially and adversely affect our revenues. The demand for tanker capacity to transport crude oil depends upon world and regional oil markets. A number of factors influence these markets, including: · global and regional economic conditions; · increases and decreases in production of and demand for crude oil; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; · environmental concerns and regulations; and 17 · weather. Historically, the crude oil markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that can affect the price, demand, production and transport of oil, including competition from alternative energy sources. Decreased demand for oil transportation may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and profitability. The market for crude oil transportation services is highly competitive and we may not be able to effectively compete. Our vessels are employed in a highly competitive market. Our competitors include the owners of other Aframax, Suezmax, VLCC, Panamax and Handymax vessels and, to a lesser degree, owners of other size tankers. Both groups include independent oil tanker companies as well as oil companies. We do not control a sufficiently large share of the market to influence the market price charged for crude oil transportation services. Our market share may decrease in the future. We may not be able to compete profitably as we expand our business into new geographic regions or provide new services. New markets may require different skills, knowledge or strategies than we use in our current markets, and the competitors in those new markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. The market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, and we may incur losses when we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. We believe that the fair market value of our vessels may have declined recently, and may decrease further depending on a number of factors including: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies; · supply and demand for tankers and the types and sizes of tankers we own; · alternative modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. Declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause the market value of our vessels to decrease significantly. We evaluate the carrying amounts of our vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future freight rates, earnings from the vessels and discount rates. All of these items have been historically volatile. We evaluate the recoverable amount as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the vessel, the vessel is deemed impaired. The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value at any point in time because the new market prices of secondhand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of newbuildings. Any impairment charges incurred as a result of further declines in charter rates could negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or the trading price of our common shares. We may not be able to grow or to effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by taking advantage of changing market conditions, which may include expanding our business in the Atlantic basin, the primary geographic area and market where we operate, expanding into other regions, or increasing the number of vessels in our fleet. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: · identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning vessels for acquisitions or joint ventures; 18 · identify vessels and/or shipping companies for acquisitions; · integrate any acquired businesses or vessels successfully with our existing operations; · hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · identify additional new markets outside of the Atlantic basin; · improve our operating and financial systems and controls; and · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. Our ability to grow is in part dependent on our ability to expand our fleet through acquisitions of suitable double-hull vessels. We may not be able to acquire newbuildings or secondhand double-hull tankers on favorable terms, which could impede our growth and negatively impact our financial condition. We may not be able to contract for newbuildings or locate suitable secondhand double-hull vessels or negotiate acceptable construction or purchase contracts with shipyards and owners, or obtain financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. The failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any vessels or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate seasonally. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in tanker demand and, as a result, in charter rates. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the fall and winter months (the fourth and first quarters of the calendar year) in anticipation of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere during the winter months. Unpredictable weather patterns and variations in oil reserves disrupt vessel scheduling and could impact charter rates. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but we incur a significant portion of our expenses, particularly crew and maintenance costs, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollars relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. A decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. There may be risks associated with the purchase and operation of secondhand vessels. Our current business strategy includes additional growth through the acquisition of additional secondhand vessels. Although we inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if such vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Therefore, our future operating results could be negatively affected if some of the vessels do not perform as we expect. Also, we generally do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. Delays or defaults by the shipyards in the construction of any new vessels that we may order could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. Our business strategy may include additional growth through constructing new vessels or acquiring newbuilding contracts. Any such projects would be subject to the risk of delay or defaults by shipyards caused by, among other things, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, and inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. In accordance with industry practice, in the event any such shipyards are unable or unwilling to deliver the vessels ordered, we may not have substantial remedies. Failure to construct or deliver vessels by the shipyards or any significant delays could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. An increase in costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our vessel operating expenses are comprised of a variety of costs including crew costs, provisions, deck and engine stores, lubricating oil, insurance, maintenance and repairs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire shipping industry. Also, costs 19 such as insurance and security are still increasing. If costs continue to rise, that could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. Fuel, or bunkers, is a significant, if not the largest, expense for our vessels that will be employed in the spot market. With respect to our vessels that will be employed on time charter, the charterer is generally responsible for the cost of fuel, however such cost may affect the charter rates we are able to negotiate for our vessels. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation , such as truck or rail. We may face unexpected repair costs for our vessels. Repairs and maintenance costs are difficult to predict with certainty and may be substantial. Many of these expenses are not covered by our insurance. Large repair expenses could decrease our cash flow and profitability and reduce our liquidity. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. Changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, market disruptions, delay or rerouting. In addition, the operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and the associated costs could exceed the insurance coverage available to us. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of revenues while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to travel to more distant drydocking facilities may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Fu rther, the total loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent any such damage, costs, or loss which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and available cash. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial tanker must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a tanker is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the tanker and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. All of our vessels are certified as being “in-class” by Det Norske Veritas or the American Bureau of Shipping. These classification societies are members of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and on special survey or continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to five years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If a vessel in our fleet does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, it will be unemployable and unable to trade between ports. This would negatively impact our results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success depends particularly 20 on the continued service of John Tavlarios, our President, and our ability to attract a suitable replacement, if necessary. In addition, in connection with the Arlington Acquisition we entered into a letter agreement with Peter Georgiopoulos whereby, effective as of December 16, 2008, or the Effective Date, Mr. Georgiopoulos agreed to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the new combined company following the Arlington Acquisition for three years following the Effective Date, or earlier if he is not nominated to such position or if our shareholders decline to re-elect him to, or remove him from, our Board of Directors. Such three year period ends on December 16, 2011. The loss of Peter Georgiopoulos’ full-time service could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified ship officers and crew. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. We expect crew costs to increase slightly in 2011. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. Our vessel-owning subsidiaries and third-party technical management companies employ masters, officers and crews to man our vessels. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of any customer could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We have derived, and we believe we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. If any of our key customers breach or terminate their time charters or renegotiate or renew them on terms less favorable than those currently in effect, or if any significant customer decreases the amount of business it transacts with us or if we lose any of our customers or a significant portion of our revenues, our operating results, cash flows and profitability could be materially adversely affected. If the Oaktree Transactions are consummated and the Warrants are issued to Oaktree, Oaktree could potentially own a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, and as a result could be able to exert significant influence over the Company. If the Oaktree Transactions (as described under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”) are consummated, Oaktree will receive warrants for the purchase of up to 19.9% of our outstanding common stock (measured as of immediately prior to the closing date of the Oaktree Transaction) at an exercise price of $0.01 per share (the “Warrants”), in addition to the $200 million in pay-in-kind toggle floating rate secured notes (the “Oaktree Notes”) to be issued by General Maritime Subsidiary Corporation and General Maritime Subsidiary II Corporation pursuant to the Oaktree Credit Agreement. As a result, if the Oaktree Transactions are consummated, Oaktree may be able to exert significant influence over corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. As a result, it may be difficul t for other investors to affect the outcome of shareholder votes. Shipping is an inherently risky business and our insurance may not be adequate. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil creates a risk of business interruptions due to political, economic or regulatory circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. Future hostilities or other political instability could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and our revenues, cash flows and profitability. We carry insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. We currently maintain $1 billion in coverage for each of our vessels for liability for spillage or leakage of oil or pollution. We also carry insurance covering lost revenue resulting from vessel off-hire for all of our vessels. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which we are not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future and we cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulatio ns could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us which could reduce our cash flows and place strains on our liquidity and capital resources. The risks associated with older vessels could adversely affect our operations. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase as the vessel ages. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average age of the 37 vessels in our fleet was 8.6 years, compared to an average age of 9.6 years as of December 31, 2009. Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels typically are less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of tankers may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels, and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify any required expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we do not set aside funds and are unable to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we estimate to be 25 years from their build dates. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our revenue will decline and our business, results of operations, financial condition, and available cash per share would be adversely affected. Any funds set aside for vessel replacement will reduce available cash. 21 Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and off the western coast of Africa. Throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incide nts, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In response to piracy incidents in 2008, 2009 and 2010, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, following consultation with regulatory authorities, we may station guards on some of our vessels in some instances. While our use of guards is intended to deter and prevent the hijacking of our vessels, it may also increase our risk of liability for death or injury to persons or damage to personal property. While we believe we generally have adequate insurance in place to cover such liability, if we do not, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks, and the current conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and North Africa and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East and North Africa may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil and other refined products to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil and other refined products to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts, which would harm our cash flow and our business. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. From time to time on charterers’ instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act (“CISADA”), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our Company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our Company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our Company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perceptio n of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which our customers operate. Several of our customers have operations in locations that are subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather and geological events, which could disrupt the operations of those customers and suppliers as well as our operations. For example, in March 2011, the northern region of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a tsunami. These geological events caused significant damage in that region and have adversely affected Japan’s infrastructure and economy. Several of our customers are located in Japan and they have experienced, and may experience in the future, shutdowns as a result of these events, and their operations may be negatively impacted by these events. As a result, some or all of those customers may reduce their orders for crude oil, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition to the negative direct economic effects of recent eve nts on the Japanese economy and on our customers and suppliers located in Japan, economic conditions in Japan could also adversely affect regional and global economic conditions. The degree to which these events, as well as future events, in Japan will adversely affect regional and global economies remains uncertain at this time. However, if these events cause a decrease in demand for crude oil, our financial condition and operations could be adversely affected. 22 Compliance with safety, environmental and other governmental requirements and related costs may adversely affect our operations. The shipping industry in general, our business and the operation of our vessels in particular, are affected by a variety of governmental regulations in the form of numerous international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers are registered. These regulations include: · the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, which imposes strict liability for the discharge of oil into the 200-mile United States exclusive economic zone, the obligation to obtain certificates of financial responsibility for vessels trading in United States waters and the requirement that newly constructed tankers that trade in United States waters be constructed with double-hulls; · the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969 entered into by many countries (other than the United States) which imposes strict liability for pollution damage caused by the discharge of oil; · the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships adopted and implemented under the auspices of the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, with respect to strict technical and operational requirements for tankers; · the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, which imposes crew and passenger safety requirements; · the International Ship and Port Facilities Securities Code, or the ISPS Code, which became effective in 2004; · the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 which imposes requirements relating to the safeguarding of life and property through limitations on load capability for vessels on international voyages; and · the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 which imposes security requirements for tankers entering U.S. ports. More stringent maritime safety rules have been imposed in the European Union. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or similar events in the future, may result in further regulation of the tanker industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, and related increases in compliance costs, all of which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are oper ated in compliance with applicable safety and environmental laws and regulations and are insured against usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. The vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during each vessel’s required annual survey. However, government regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact may change in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures with respect to our ships to keep them in compliance. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels may be requisitioned by governments without adequate compensation. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. In the case of a requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of 23 war or emergency. Although we, as owner, would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Increases in tonnage taxes on our vessels would increase the costs of our operations. Our vessels are currently registered under the flags of the Republic of Liberia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands and Bermuda. These jurisdictions impose taxes based on the tonnage capacity of each of the vessels registered under their flag. The tonnage taxes imposed by these countries could increase, which would cause the costs of our operations to increase. Arrests of our vessels by maritime claimants could cause a significant loss of earnings for the related off hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by “arresting” or “attaching” a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hire period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the “sister ship” theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with “sister ship” liability laws, claims might be asserted against us, any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Proceedings involving General Maritime, our vessel-operating subsidiary and two General Maritime vessel officers could negatively impact our business. On November 25, 2008, a jury in the Southern District of Texas found General Maritime Management (Portugal) L.D.A., a subsidiary of ours, or GMM Portugal, and two vessel officers of the Genmar Defiance guilty of violating the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships and 18 USC 1001. The conviction resulted from charges based on alleged incidents occurring on board the Genmar Defiance arising from potential failures by shipboard staff to properly record discharges of bilge waste during the period of November 24, 2007 through November 26, 2007. Pursuant to the sentence imposed by the Court on March 13, 2009, GMM Portugal paid a $1 million fine in April 2009 and is subject to a probationary period of five years. During this period, a court-appointed monitor will monitor and audit GMM Portugal’s compliance with its environmental compliance plan, and GMM Portugal is r equired to designate a responsible corporate officer to submit monthly reports to, and respond to inquiries from, the court’s probation department. The court stated that, should GMM Portugal engage in future conduct in violation of its probation, it may, under appropriate circumstances, ban certain of our vessels from calling on U.S. ports. Any violations of probation may also result in additional penalties, costs or sanctions being imposed on us. We have also written off approximately $3.3 million of insurance claims related to this matter through December 31, 2009. On or about August 29, 2007, an oil sheen was discovered by shipboard personnel of the Genmar Progress in Guayanilla Bay, Puerto Rico in the vicinity of the vessel. We understand the federal and Puerto Rico authorities are conducting civil investigations into an oil pollution incident which occurred during this time period on the southwest coast of Puerto Rico including Guayanilla Bay. The extent to which oil discharged from the Genmar Progress is responsible for this incident is currently the subject of investigation. The U.S. Coast Guard has designated the Genmar Progress as a potential source of discharged oil. Under the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the source of the discharge is liable, regardless of fault, for damages and oil spill remediation as a result of the discharge. In January 2009, we received a demand from the U.S. National Pollution Fund for approximately $5.8 million for the U.S. Coast Guard’s response costs and certain costs of the Departamento de Recursos Naturales y Ambientales of Puerto Rico in connection with the alleged damage to the environment caused by the spill. In April 2010, the U.S. National Pollution Fund made an additional natural resource damage assessment claim against us of approximately $0.5 million. In October 2010, we entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. National Pollution Fund in which we paid approximately $6.3 million in full satisfaction of the oil spill response costs of the U.S. Coast Guard and natural damage assessment costs of the U.S. National Pollution Fund through the date of the settlement agreement. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, the U.S. National Pollution Fund will waive its c laims to any additional civil penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act as well as for accrued interest. Notwithstanding the settlement agreement, the Company may be subject to any further potential claims by the U.S. National Pollution Fund or the U.S. Coast Guard arising from the ongoing natural damage assessment. The U.S. Department of Justice also investigated our involvement in the spill incident. On February 28, 2011, the U.S. Department of Justice notified us that the investigation has been closed, and therefore, we do not expect that any charges, fines and/or penalties will be levied against us or any of our subsidiaries. 24 We have been cooperating in these investigations and has posted a surety bond to cover potential fines or penalties that may be imposed in connection with these matters. These matters have been reported to our protection and indemnity insurance underwriters. We may have to pay U.S. tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our net income and cash flows. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, which we refer to as Section 883, then we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our shipping income that is derived from U.S. sources. If we are subject to such tax, our results of operations and cash flows would be reduced by the amount of such tax. We will qualify for exemption under Section 883 if, among other things, our stock is treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the United States. Under applicable Treasury regulations, we may not satisfy this publicly traded requirement in any taxable year in which 50% or more of our stock is owned for more than half the days in such year by persons who actually or constructively own 5% or more of our stock, which we sometimes refer to as 5% shareholders. We believe that, based on the ownership of our stock in 2010, we satisfied the publicly traded requirement for 2010. However, if 5% shareholders were to own more than 50% of our common stock for more than half the days of any future taxable year, we may not be eligible to claim exemption from tax under Section 883 for such taxable year. We can provide no assurance that changes and shifts in the ownership of our stock by 5% shareholders will not preclude us from qualifying for exemption from tax in 2011 or in future years. If we do not qualify for the Section 883 exemption, our shipping income derived from U.S. sources, or 50% of our gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United States, would be subject to a 4% tax without allowance for deductions. Legislative action relating to taxation could materially and adversely affect us. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. For example, legislative proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress which, if enacted, could change the circumstances under which we would be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position and require us to take action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate and cash tax position. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” which we sometimes refer to as a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of its assets (averaged over the year and generally determined based upon value) produce or are held for the production of “passive income,” which we sometimes refer to as passive assets. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to distributions they receive from the PFIC and gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their stock in the PFIC. For purposes of these tests, “passive income” generally includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business, as defined in applicable Treasury regulations. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” By contrast, rental income would generally constitute passive income unless we were treated under specific rules as deriving our rental income in the active conduct of a trade or business. We do not believe that our past or existing operations or the past operations of General Maritime Subsidiary or Arlington would cause us, or would have caused General Maritime Subsidiary or Arlington, to be deemed a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and spot chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that (1) our income from our time and spot chartering activities does not constitute passive income and (2) the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. While there is no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation, there is legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and pronouncements by the United States Internal Revenue Service, which we sometimes refer to as the IRS, concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather 25 than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, because (1) there are uncertainties in the application of the PFIC rules, (2) the PFIC test is an annual test, and (3) although we intend to manage our business so as to avoid PFIC status to the extent consistent with our other business goals, there could be changes in the nature and extent of our operations in future years, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in any taxable year. If we were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. tax consequences. These adverse tax consequences to shareholders could negatively impact our ability to issue additional equity in order to raise the capital necessary for our business operations. The international nature of our operations may make the outcome of any bankruptcy proceedings difficult to predict. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and our subsidiaries are also incorporated under the laws of the Marshall Islands, Liberia, Bermuda and certain other countries besides the United States, and we conduct operations in countries around the world. Consequently, in the event of any bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding involving us or any of our subsidiaries, bankruptcy laws other than those of the United States could apply. We have limited operations in the United States. If we become a debtor under U.S. bankruptcy laws, bankruptcy courts in the United States may seek to assert jurisdiction over all of our assets, wherever located, including property situated in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that we would become a debtor in the United States, or that a U.S. bankruptcy court would be entitled to, or acc ept, jurisdiction over such a bankruptcy case, or that courts in other countries that have jurisdiction over us and our operations would recognize a U.S. bankruptcy court’s jurisdiction if any other bankruptcy court would determine it had jurisdiction. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the recent drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. On April 22, 2010, the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, which was engaged in deepwater drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico, sank after an explosion and fire. The incident resulted in a significant and uncontrolled oil spill off the coast of Louisiana. In response to this incident, proposals have been introduced in the U.S. Congress to, among other things, increase the limits of liability under the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990. At this time, we cannot predict what, if any, impact the Deepwater Horizon incident may have on the regulation of shipping activity or the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of our operations. Changes in laws or regulations applicable to our operations and increases in the cost or reductions in the availability of insurance could have a negative impact on our profitability. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Climate change may reduce the demand for oil or increased regulation of greenhouse gases may create greater incentives for use of altern ative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR FINANCINGS We have incurred significant indebtedness which could affect our ability to finance our operations, pursue desirable business opportunities and successfully run our business in the future, and therefore make it more difficult for us to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness. We have incurred substantial debt. As of December 31, 2010, we had $1,376 million of indebtedness outstanding and shareholders’ equity of $332.0 million. Our substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to our company, including: · limiting our ability to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations in other areas of our business, including for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities, because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service our debt; 26 · requiring us to seek to incur further indebtedness in order to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments planned by us to the extent our future cash flows are insufficient; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and the execution of our growth strategy, and other expenses or investments planned by us; · limiting our flexibility and our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation, our business and our industry; · limiting our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness (which could result in an event of default if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness); · increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in our business and to adverse economic and industry conditions generally; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; · limiting our ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness; and · limiting our ability to enter into hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. Our proposed new and amended credit facilities, as discussed under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”, will restrict our ability to use our cash. Among other restrictions, such credit facilities are expected to provide that commitments be reduced based on excess liquidity for the first two years of the new facility (followed by scheduled amortization payments thereafter), prohibit us from making capital expenditures during that two year period (or until the amortization shortfall amount is zero) other than maintenance capital expenditures, or vessel acquisitions or other capital expenditures not in the ordinary course of business using net cash proceeds from equity offerings or debt which does not require cash payments during such two year period and prohibit us from declaring or paying divid ends during such two year period. Based on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2010 under our 2005 Credit Facility, 2010 Credit Facility, and Bridge Loan Credit Facility, each of which is defined herein, we will have to repay $160.0 million during 2011. Our 2005 Credit Facility matures in 2012, our 2010 Credit Facility matures in 2015 and our Senior Notes are due in 2017 (our Bridge Loan Credit Facility has been repaid). If we are unable to refinance such indebtedness, we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of such debt, which will reduce the amount of funds available for operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. The occurrence of any one of the events described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. We may incur significantly more indebtedness, which could further increase the risks associated with our indebtedness and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Senior Notes. Despite our current level of indebtedness, our 2005 Credit Facility, 2010 Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes permit us to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, subject to specified limitations. Although our 2005 Credit Facility, 2010 Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and, under specified circumstances, the indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they face would be increased, and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations, in whole or in part. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. A range of economic, competitive, financial, business, industry and other factors will affect our future financial performance, and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay our debt. Many of these factors, such as charter rates, economic and financial conditions in our industry and the global economy or competitive initiatives of our competitors, are beyond our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alterna tive financing plans, such as: · refinancing or restructuring our debt; · selling tankers or other assets; · reducing or delaying investments and capital expenditures; or 27 · seeking to raise additional capital. However, we cannot assure you that undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, would be successful in allowing us to meet our debt obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service o bligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow all or any of the amounts committed under the 2010 Credit Facility. We intend to use the 2010 Credit Facility to fund a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition of the remaining Metrostar Vessel (the “Vessel Acquisition”). A committed amount of $45.6 million remains available for borrowing under the 2010 Credit Facility. Borrowings under the 2010 Credit Facility are subject to customary conditions, which include limitations on the use of borrowings to fund the purchase price of any vessel. The 2010 Credit Facility requires us to have raised cash proceeds from the issuance of common stock in an amount equal to at least 40% of the purchase price of all delivered Metrostar Vessels by September 30, 2011. The credit facility requires that there be no default as a condition to borrowing. As discussed below under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Reso urces”, we believe that it is probable, absent amendments or waivers to our credit facilities or obtaining additional financing, that we will not comply with the Net Debt-to-EBITDA maintenance covenants under our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility at or prior to the fourth quarter of 2011, and we may not be able to continue to comply with the minimum cash balance covenant due to continued weakness in charter rates and/or the timing of receipt of payments and required expenditures, in each case without additional financing or a waiver or amendment of our credit facilities. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy such covenants or be able to borrow all or any of the amounts that may be committed under the 2010 Credit Facility. If we are unable to borrow the amounts committed thereunder, our ability to complete the Vessel Acquisition will be materially adversely affected. We may be liable for damages if the remaining Vessel Acquisition fails to close as a result of our unwillingness, inability or other failure to pay the purchase price under, or any other breach by us of, the agreements relating to the remaining Vessel Acquisition. We do not have sufficient liquidity or working capital to pay the purchase price for the remaining Vessel Acquisition and will be required to raise additional cash through financing transactions in order to fulfill our payment obligations under the agreements relating to the remaining Vessel Acquisition. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete such financing transactions or fulfill our other obligations under such agreements. If we breach or do not fully perform our obligations under such agreements, we may forfeit the deposits and other amounts we have paid to the sellers in connection with the remaining Vessel Acquisition and may be liable to the sellers for any additional damages resulting from our actions. The indenture for the Senior Notes and our credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. The indenture for the Senior Notes, our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries. These restrictions will limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, as applicable: · incur additional debt and provide additional guarantees; · pay dividends or make other restricted payments, including certain investments; · create or permit certain liens; · sell tankers or other assets; · create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; · engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and · consolidate or merge with or into other companies, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. 28 These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. In addition, our 2005 Credit Facility and our 2010 Credit Facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial covenants. Among other things, we are required to maintain the aggregate fair market value of all mortgaged vessels under the 2005 Credit Facility at or above 125% of the total commitment amount under the credit facility, and as a result we have pledged 11 of our Suezmax, 12 of our Aframax vessels, two of our Panamax vessels, one of our Handymax vessels and one of our VLCCs as security to the lenders under the 2005 Credit Facility. We are required to maintain the aggregate fair market value of all mortgaged vessels under the 2010 Credit Facility at or above 135% of the total commitment amount under the credit facility, and as a result we have pledged five of our VLCCs and one of our Suezmax vessels as security to the lenders under the 2010 Credit Facility.& #160; We are currently required under both the 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility to maintain a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio of no more than 8.75:1.0 on the last day of any fiscal quarter until September 30, 2011 and 5.5:1.0 thereafter. Additionally, we are not permitted to allow the sum of (A) unrestricted cash and cash equivalents plus (B) the lesser of (1) the total available unutilized commitment under the 2005 Credit Facility and (2) $25 million to be less than $50 million. Under the 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility, while the Net Debt to EBITDA ratio is greater than 6.0, we will be permitted to pay a dividend of up to $0.01 per share per quarter; while it is 6.0 or less, we will be permitted to pay up to $30 million per fiscal year in total dividends. Pursuant to restrictions under the indenture for our Senior Notes, we are currently unable to p ay dividends. We may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and satisfy these covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios or satisfy these covenants or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under, our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility would prevent us from borrowing additional money under the 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility, to the extent such availability exists, and could result in a default under one or both agreements. If a default occurs under our 2005 Credit Facility and/or 2010 Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare that debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt, which constitutes all or substantially all of our assets, including our rights in the mortgaged vessels and their charters. Moreover, if the lenders under our 2005 C redit Facility and/or 2010 Credit Facility were to accelerate the debt outstanding under that facility, it could result in a default under our other debt obligations that may exist at such time, and if all or any part of our debt were to be accelerated, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds available to repay it or to repay our other indebtedness. Our proposed new and amended credit facilities, as discussed under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”, will restrict our ability to use our cash. Among other restrictions, such credit facilities are expected to provide that commitments be reduced based on excess liquidity for a period of two years (followed by scheduled amortization payments thereafter), prohibit us from making capital expenditures during that two year period (or until the amortization shortfall amount is zero) other than maintenance capital expenditures, or vessel acquisitions using net cash proceeds from equity offerings or debt which does not require cash payments during such two year period and prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends during such two year period. Fluctuations in the market value of our fleet may adversely affect our liquidity and may result in breaches under our financing arrangements and sales of vessels at a loss. The market value of vessels fluctuates depending upon general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry, the number of tankers in the world fleet, the price of constructing new tankers, or newbuildings, types and sizes of tankers, and the cost of other modes of transportation. The market value of our fleet may decline as a result of a downswing in the historically cyclical shipping industry or as a result of the aging of our fleet. Declining tanker values could affect our ability to raise cash by limiting our ability to refinance vessels and thereby adversely impact our liquidity. In addition, declining vessel values could result in the reduction in lending commitments, the pledging of unencumbered vessels as additional collateral, the requirement to repay outstanding amounts or a breach of loan covenants, which could give rise to an event of default under our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Cr edit Facility. Our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility require us to comply with a collateral maintenance covenant under which the market value of our vessels must remain at or above 125% and 135%, respectively, of the total commitment amount under the credit facility. If we are unable to maintain this required collateral maintenance ratio, we may be prevented from borrowing additional money under our credit facilities, or we may default under our credit facilities. If a default occurs, the lenders could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing the debt, which constitutes a majority of our assets. Moreover, if the lenders were to accelerate the debt outstanding, it could result in a default under our other debt obligations that may exist at such time. Due to the cyclical nature of the tanker market, the market value of one or more of our vessels may at various times be lower than their book value, and sales of those vessels during those times would result in losses. If we determine at any time that a vessel’s future limited useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, that could result in a charge against our earnings and the reduction of our shareholders’ equity. If for any reason we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we would also incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. The 27 vessels which are currently collateralizing in part our 2005 Credit Facility had an aggregate carrying value of $946.1 million as of December 31, 2010 and the six vessels which are cur rently collateralizing in part our 2010 Credit Facility had an aggregate carrying value of $536.9 million as of December 31, 2010. 29 If we default on our obligations to pay any of our indebtedness, we may be subject to restrictions on the payment of our other debt obligations or cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness that is not waived by the required lenders or holders of such indebtedness, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes and substantially decrease the market value of such debt instruments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in any agreement governing our indebtedness, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default: · the lenders or holders of such indebtedness could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable and, if not promptly paid, institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; · even if those lenders or holders do not declare a default, they may be able to cause all of our available cash to be used to repay the indebtedness owed to them; and · such default could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration under our other indebtedness. As a result of such default and any actions the lenders may take in response thereto, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Based on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2010 under our 2005 Credit Facility, 2010 Credit Facility, and Bridge Loan Credit Facility, each of which is defined herein, we will have to repay $160.0 million during 2011. Our 2005 Credit Facility matures in 2012, our 2010 Credit Facility matures in 2015 and our Senior Notes are due in 2017 (our Bridge Loan Credit Facility has been repaid). If we are unable to refinance such indebtedness, we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of such debt, which will reduce the amount of funds available for operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. As discussed below under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”, we believe that it is probable, absent amendments or waivers to our credit facilities or obtaining additional financing, that we will not comply with the Net Debt-to-EBITDA maintenance covenants under our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility at or prior to the fourth quarter of 2011, and we may not be able to continue to comply with the minimum cash balance covenant due to continued weakness in charter rates and/or the timing of receipt of payments and required expenditures, in each case without additional financing or a waiver or amendment of our credit facilities. An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. Our debt under our 2005 Credit Facility and 2010 Credit Facility bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 350 basis points (and our contemplated new financings will also bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR). We may also incur indebtedness in the future with variable interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. The impact of such an increase would be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. LIBOR rates have recently been stable, but the spread between those rates and prime lending rates can widen significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by amounts that we may drawdown under our credit facilities fluctuate with changes in the LIBOR rates, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on amounts that we were to drawdown from our credit facility, which in turn, would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We are currently party to three interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our 2005 Credit Facility which was advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Since our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes we recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our income statement. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $12.1 million. 30 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Anti-takeover provisions in our financing agreements and organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several of our existing financing agreements impose restrictions on changes of control of our company and our ship-owning subsidiaries. These include requirements that we obtain the lenders’ consent prior to any change of control and that we make an offer to redeem certain indebtedness before a change of control can take place. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · prohibiting us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested shareholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless certain provisions are met; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We have agreed with Peter C. Georgiopoulos that we will enter into a new registration rights agreement granting Mr. Georgiopoulos registration rights with respect to 2,938,343 shares of our common stock which he received in connection with the Arlington Acquisition in exchange for shares of General Maritime Subsidiary issued to him in connection with the recapitalization of General Maritime Subsidiary in June 2001. We also plan to enter into a registration rights agreement with Oaktree, Peter C. Georgiopoulos, and an entity controlled by him under which we will be obligated to file a registration rights agreement covering resales of shares of common stock issued upon exercise of the Warrants. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Refinancing Transactions” for a further discussion of Mr. Georgiopoulos’ registration rights. We also registered on Form S-8 an aggregate of 1,624,347 shares issuable upon exercise of options we have granted to purchase common stock or reserved for issuance under our equity compensation plans. We have also registered on Form S-3 an aggregate of 8,128,612 shares of our common stock, which include the 2,938,343 shares covered under the registration rights agreement mentioned above. Our shareholders may be subject to substantial dilution of their ownership interests. Certain transactions currently contemplated or other transactions we may enter into may substantially dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The Oaktree Transactions contemplate the issuance of Warrants for up to 19.9% of our outstanding common stock at the time of closing that may be exercised at a price of $0.01 per share. Also, our 2010 Credit Facility requires that we raise at least $52.4 million from the issuance of common stock by September 30, 2011. In addition, in our proxy statement for our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, we are seeking the approval of our shareholders to increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock from 140,000,000 shares to 390,000,000 shares, and we may issue a portion of such newly authorized shares in offerings from time to time. To the extent that an existing shareholder does not purchase additional shares that we may issue in any of the transactions described above, that shareholder’s interest in our company will be diluted, which means that its percentage of ownership in our company will be reduced. Following such a reduction, that shareholder’s common stock would represent a smaller percentage of the vote in our Board of Directors’ elections and other shareholder decisions. In addition, if additional shares are issued, depending on the circumstances, any dividends per share could be reduced. Our incorporation under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands may limit the ability of our shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act. The provisions of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act. For example, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Although the Republic of the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or j udicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. 31 It may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and most of our subsidiaries are organized in the Republic of Liberia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the United States upon us or to enforce judgment upon us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries ba sed upon these laws. If our shareholders do not approve an increase in our authorized shares, we may not be able to raise additional funds through equity offerings. Our shareholders have been asked to vote on a proposal to amend our articles of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock at the annual meeting of shareholders expected to be held on May 12, 2011. The proposed amendment to the articles of incorporation requires an approval of a majority of the common shares. There is a risk that we may not get shareholder approval to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock. We do not have enough shares authorized at present to effect an equity financing involving more than approximately 50,400,028. If we do not receive shareholder approval for the proposed increase in authorized shares, our ability to raise capital through equity financings may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 