ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business We have been the subject of a going concern opinion by our independent auditors who have expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has added an explanatory paragraph to their audit report issued in connection with our financial statements which states that our recurring losses from operations and the need to raise additional financing in order to execute our business plan raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Assurances cannot be given that adequate financing can be obtained to meet our capital requirements. If we are unable to generate profits and unable to continue to obtain financing to meet our working capital requirements, we may have to curtail our business sharply or cease operations altogether. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations on a timely basis to retain our current financing, to obtain additional financing, and, ultimately, to attain profitability. Should any of these events not occur, we will be adversely affected and we may have to cease operations. Because we have a limited operating history, our ability to fully and successfully develop our business is unknown. We have only recently begun producing and distributing energy drinks and bottled water, and do not have a significant operating history with which investors can evaluate our business. Our ability to successfully develop and market our products and organize poker tournaments, and to realize consistent, meaningful revenues and profit has not been established and cannot be assured. For us to achieve success, our products must receive broad market acceptance by consumers. Without this market acceptance, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue our business operation. In addition, we believe that the acceptance and success of our product by poker players and at poker tournaments is integral to the success of our products. Poker players and poker tournaments are our primary marketing tool for the sale of our products. If our products are not widely accepted by the market, our business may fail. Because we rely heavily on our manufacturers and distributors, our ability to successfully conduct business operations is dependent upon their ability to remain operational. We have arrangements with Beverage Science to develop, produce, and can our energy drinks, and with Fitness Water to produce and bottle our water product. We also have an arrangement with United Fulfillment Solutions whereby it distributes all of our products both nationally and internationally. However, we have not entered into formal agreements with any of these third-party contractors, although we rely heavily on these third-party contractors to supply and distribute our products. Should one or more of them cease operations, dispute our arrangement with them, file for bankruptcy, unilaterally change the terms or pricing of our arrangement, or terminate their relationship with us, we may have significant difficulty replacing them in a timely manner or at all. Our business operations and name brand would likely suffer, and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Changes in the non-alcoholic beverages business environment could impact our financial results. The non-alcoholic beverages business environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences, including changes based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and pricing pressures. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this rapidly changing environment, our business could be negatively affected. 10 If energy drinks, bottled water, or poker experience a decline in popularity, our financial condition may materially suffer. Currently, both energy drinks and poker are enjoying a great deal of popularity. Our strategy has been to capitalize on the popularity of these markets by utilizing poker as a marketing vehicle to sell our products. The bulk of our marketing efforts have focused and will continue to focus on sponsoring and/or hosting poker tournaments, obtaining poker celebrity endorsements, and branding our products with poker. If poker should suffer a decline in popularity, the return on our marketing efforts will be significantly less than we have anticipated. Similarly, if energy drinks, or bottled water in general, decline in popularity with consumers, particularly with our target market, our sales will likely decline. In either event, our financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States or in other major markets could negatively impact our financial performance. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets, could negatively affect the affordability of, and consumer demand for, some of our beverages. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our beverages to lower-priced products offered by other companies. Softer consumer demand for our beverages in the United States or in other major markets may negatively affect our financial performance. If we are not able to acquire or develop, and successfully integrate additional products in the future, our growth strategy will be negatively impacted. We intend to grow our business primarily through the development of our products as well as acquisitions of other brands. If we have the working capital necessary to do so, we expect to acquire additional brands in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop or acquire additional products or assimilate all of the products we do develop or acquire into our business or product mix. Acquisitions can be accompanied by risks such as potential exposure to unknown liabilities relating to the acquired product or business. We may enter into joint ventures, which may also carry risks of liability to third parties. Because we compete in an industry characterized by rapid changes in consumer preferences, our ability to continue developing new products to satisfy our consumers’ changing preferences will determine our long-term success. Our short-term market distribution and penetration will be limited as compared with the potential market and so our initial views as to customer acceptance of a particular brand can be erroneous, and there can be no assurance that true market acceptance will ultimately be achieved. In addition, customer preferences are also affected by factors other than taste. If we do not adjust to and respond to these and other changes in customer preferences, our sales may be adversely affected. If our business is unsuccessful, our shareholders may lose their entire investment. Although shareholders will not be bound by or be personally liable for our expenses, liabilities or obligations beyond their total original capital contributions, should we suffer a deficiency in funds with which to meet our obligations, the shareholders as a whole may lose their entire investment in our company. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or shareholder approval and such changes could harm our business and results of operations and the value of our stock. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. However, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or otherwise. 11 Because executive management is free to devote time to other ventures, shareholders may not agree with their allocation of time. Our executive officers and directors will devote only that portion of their time, which, in their judgment and experience, is reasonably required for the management and operation of our business. Management may have conflicts of interest in allocating management time, services and functions among us and any present and future ventures which are or may be organized by our officers or directors and/or their affiliates. Management will not be required to direct us as their sole and exclusive function, and they may have other business interests and engage in other activities in addition to those relating to us. This includes rendering advice or services of any kind to other investors and creating or managing other businesses. Changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging could increase our costs and reduce demand for our products. We and our bottlers currently offer non-refillable, recyclable containers in the United States. Legal requirements have been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged for the sale, marketing and use of certain non-refillable beverage containers. Other proposals relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotax and/or product stewardship have been introduced in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere. Consumers’ increased concerns and changing attitudes about solid waste streams and environmental responsibility and related publicity could result in the adoption of such legislation or regulations. If these types of requirements are adopted and implemented on a large scale in any of the markets in which we operate, they could affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which could negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, container-deposit laws, or regulations that impose additional burdens on retailers, could cause a shift away from our products to retailer-proprietary brands, which could impact the demand for our products in the affected markets. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of affected products. Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements relating to the content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our products. If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products. One such law, which is in effect in California, requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products because it does not recognize any generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not required. Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected product to the requirement of a warning label. We are not currently required to display warnings under this law on any of our beverages produced for sale in California. In the future, however, caffeine and other substances detectable in our products may be added to the list pursuant to this law and the related regulations as they currently exist or as they may be amended. If a substance found in one of our products is added to the list, or if the increasing sensitivity of detection methodology results in the detection of an infinitesimal quantity of a listed substance in one of our beverages produced for sale in California, the resulting warning requirements or adverse publicity could negatively affect our sales. Because our business is subject to many regulations and noncompliance is costly, any failure on our part to comply may negatively impact our business. The production, marketing and sale of our non-alcoholic beverages, including contents, labels, caps and containers, are subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, state and local health agencies. If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or production may be stopped, thus adversely affecting our financial conditions and operations. Similarly, any adverse publicity associated with any noncompliance may damage our reputation and our ability to successfully market our products. Furthermore, rules and regulations are subject to change from time to time and while we monitor developments in this area, the fact that we have limited staff makes it difficult for us to keep up to date and we have no way of anticipating whether changes in these rules and regulations will impact our business adversely. Additional or revised regulatory requirements, whether regarding labeling, the environment, taxes or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 We depend, to a large degree, upon the third parties with whom we have contracted to produce our products to maintain compliance. However, any failure on their part could have a significant impact on our business. If we are not able to effectively protect our intellectual property, our business may suffer a material negative impact and may fail. We believe that our brand is important to our success and our competitive position, however we currently have only secured one trademark. If we are unable to secure trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or that protection is inadequate for future products, our business may be materially adversely affected. Further, we cannot be sure that our activities do not and will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability as well as the diversion of management’s attention from our business, any of which could negatively impact our business or financial condition. Risk Related to our Stock Because we can issue additional shares of common stock, purchasers of our common stock may incur immediate dilution and may experience further dilution. We are authorized to issue up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock, of which, as of April 8, 2011, 65,881,393 shares are issued and outstanding and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which none are issued and outstanding. Our board of directors has the authority to cause us to issue additional shares of common stock, and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of such shares, without consent of any of our shareholders. Consequently, the shareholders may experience more dilution in their ownership of our stock in the future. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our shareholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like NASDAQ a stock exchange like the NYSE AMEX. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of the shares. A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital, it may adversely impact our ability to continue operations and we may go out of business. A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Because we may attempt to acquire a significant portion of the funds we need in order to conduct our planned operations through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of our common stock could be detrimental to our liquidity and our operations because the decline may cause investors to not choose to invest in our stock. If we are unable to raise the funds we require for all our planned operations, we may be forced to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may suffer a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including our ability to develop new products and continue our current operations. As a result, our business may suffer, and not be successful and we may go out of business. We also might not be able to meet our financial obligations if we cannot raise enough funds through the sale of our common stock and we may be forced to go out of business. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the near future, our shareholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors as the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Unless we pay dividends, our shareholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. 13 Our stock is a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations which may limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Our stock is a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties We have sought to identify what we believe to be the most significant risks to our business, but we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, any of such risks may be realized nor can we guarantee that we have identified all possible risks that might arise. Investors should carefully consider all of such risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. 