ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Overview You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, and all information contained in this Annual Report, in evaluating our company and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks or uncertainties described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to our Business We face significant competition for our products and services. The markets for our various products and services are intensely competitive, continually evolving and, in some cases, subject to rapid technological change. We face competition from many healthcare information systems companies and other technology companies within segments of the revenue and payment cycle markets. We also compete with certain of our customers that provide internally some of the same products and services that we offer. Our key competitors include: (i) healthcare transaction processing companies, including those providing EDI and/or Internet-based services and those providing services through other means, such as paper and fax; (ii) healthcare information system vendors that support providers, including physician practice management system, hospital information system and electronic medical record system vendors; (iii) large information technology consulting service providers; and (iv) health insurance companies, pharmacy benefit management companies and pharmacies that provide or are developing electronic transaction services for use by providers and/or by their members and customers. In addition, major software, hardware, information systems and business process outsourcing companies, both with and without healthcare companies as their partners, offer or have announced their intention to offer products or services that are competitive with products and services that we offer. Within certain of the products and services markets in which we operate, we face competition from entities that are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we do and have established reputations for success in implementing healthcare electronic transaction processing systems. Other companies have targeted these markets for growth, including by developing new technologies utilizing Internet-based systems. We may not be able to compete successfully with these companies, and these or other competitors may commercialize products, services or technologies that render our products, services or technologies obsolete or less marketable. 21 Table of Contents Some of our customers compete with us and some, instead of using a third party provider, perform internally some of the same services that we offer. Some of our existing customers compete with us or may plan to do so or belong to alliances that compete with us or plan to do so, either with respect to the same products and services we provide to them or with respect to some of our other lines of business. For example, some of our payer customers currently offer — through affiliated clearinghouses, Web portals and other means — electronic data transmission services to providers that allow the provider to bypass third party EDI service providers such as us, and additional payers may do so in the future. The ability of payers to replicate our products and services may adversely affect the terms and conditions we are able to negotiate in our agreements with them and our transaction volume with them, which directly relates to our revenues. We may not be able to maintain our existing relationships for connectivity services with payers or develop new relationships on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, some of our products and services allow payers to outsource business processes that they have been or could be performing internally and, in order for us to be able to compete, use of our products and services must be more efficient for them than use of internal resources. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our success depends substantially upon the retention of our customers, particularly due to our transaction-based, recurring revenue model. We may not be able to retain some of our existing customers if we are unable to continue to provide products and services that our payer customers believe enable them to achieve improved efficiencies and cost-effectiveness, and that our provider customers believe allow them to more effectively manage their revenue cycle, increase reimbursement rates and improve cash flows. We also may not be able to retain customers if our electronic and/or paper-based solutions contain errors or otherwise fail to perform properly, if our pricing structure is no longer competitive or upon expiration of our contracts. Historically, we have enjoyed high customer retention rates; however, we may not be able to maintain high retention rates in the future. Our transaction-based, recurring revenues depend in part upon maintaining this high customer retention rate, and if we are unable to maintain our historically high customer retention rate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. If we are unable to connect to a large number of payers and providers, our product and service offerings would be limited and less desirable to our customers. Our business largely depends upon our ability to connect electronically to a substantial number of payers, such as insurance companies, Medicare and Medicaid agencies and pharmacy benefit managers, and providers, such as hospitals, physicians, dentists and pharmacies. The attractiveness of some of the solutions we offer to providers, such as our claims management and submission services, depends in part on our ability to connect to a large number of payers, which allows us to streamline and simplify workflows for providers. These connections may either be made directly or through a clearinghouse. We may not be able to maintain our links with a large number of payers on terms satisfactory to us and we may not be able to develop new connections, either directly or through other clearinghouses, on satisfactory terms. The failure to maintain these connections could cause our products and services to be less attractive to our provider customers. In addition, our payer customers view our connections to a large number of providers as essential in allowing them to receive a high volume of transactions and realize the resulting cost efficiencies through the use of our products and services. Our failure to maintain existing connections with payers, providers and other clearinghouses or to develop new connections as circumstances warrant, or an increase in the utilization of direct links between payers and providers, could cause our electronic transaction processing system to be less desirable to healthcare constituents, which would reduce the number of transactions that we process and for which we are paid, resulting in a decrease in revenues and an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents The failure to maintain our relationships with our channel partners or significant changes in the terms of the agreements we have with them may have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully market our products and services. We have entered into contracts with channel partners to market and sell some of our products and services. Most of these contracts are on a non-exclusive basis. However, under contracts with some of our channel partners, we may be bound by provisions that restrict our ability to market and sell our products and services to potential customers. Our arrangements with some of these channel partners involve negotiated payments to them based on percentages of revenues they generate. If the payments prove to be too high, we may be unable to realize acceptable margins, but if the payments prove to be too low, the channel partners may not be motivated to produce a sufficient volume of revenues. The success of these contractual arrangements will depend in part upon the channel partners’ own competitive, marketing and strategic considerations, including the relative advantages of using alternative products being developed and marketed by them or our competitors. If any of these channel partners are unsuccessful in marketing our products and services or seek to amend the financial or other terms of the contracts we have with them, we will need to broaden our marketing efforts to increase focus on the solutions they sell and alter our distribution strategy, which may divert our planned efforts and resources from other projects. In addition, as part of the packages these channel partners sell, they may offer a choice to their customers between products and services that we supply and similar products and services offered by our competitors or by the channel partners directly. If our products and services are not chosen for inclusion in vendor packages, the revenues we earn from these relationships will decrease. Lastly, we could be subject to claims and liability, as a result of the activities, products or services of these channel partners or other resellers of our products and services. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending these claims could be expensive, time-consuming and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. Our business and future success may depend on our ability to cross-sell our products and services. Our ability to generate revenue and growth partly depends on our ability to cross-sell our products and services to our existing customers and new customers. We expect our ability to successfully cross-sell our products and services will be one of the most significant factors influencing our growth. We may not be successful in cross-selling our products and services because our customers may find our additional products and services unnecessary or unattractive. Our failure to sell additional products and services to existing customers could affect our ability to grow our business. We have faced and will continue to face increasing pressure to reduce our prices, which may reduce our margins, profitability and competitive position. As electronic transaction processing further penetrates the healthcare market or becomes highly standardized, competition among electronic transaction processors is increasingly focused on pricing. This competition has placed, and could place further, intense pressure on us to reduce our prices in order to retain market share. If we are unable to reduce our costs sufficiently to offset declines in our prices, or if we are unable to introduce new, innovative product and service offerings with higher margins, our results of operations could decline. In addition, many healthcare industry constituents are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks, such as hospitals, and payer organizations, such as private insurance companies, consolidate, competition to provide the types of products and services we provide will become more intense, and the importance of establishing and maintaining relationships with key industry constituents will become greater. These industry constituents have, in the past, and may, in the future, try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If we are forced to reduce prices, our margins will decrease and our results of operations will decline, unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in expenses. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to generate revenue could suffer if we do not continue to update and improve our existing products and services and develop new ones. We must improve the functionality of our existing products and services in a timely manner and introduce new and valuable healthcare information technology and service solutions in order to respond to technological and regulatory developments and, thereby, retain existing customers and attract new ones. For example, from time to time, government agencies may alter format and data code requirements applicable to electronic transactions. We may not be successful in responding to technological and regulatory developments and changing customer needs. The pace of change in the markets we serve is rapid, and there are frequent new product and service introductions by our competitors and by channel partners who use our products and services in their offerings. If we do not respond successfully to technological and regulatory changes and evolving industry standards, our products and services may become obsolete. Technological changes may also result in the offering of competitive products and services at lower prices than we are charging for our products and services, which could result in our losing sales unless we lower the prices we charge. If we do lower our prices on some of our products and services, we will need to increase our margins on these products and services in order to maintain our overall profitability. In addition, the products and services we develop or license may not be able to compete with the alternatives available to our customers. Achieving market acceptance of new or updated products and services is necessary in order for them to become profitable and will likely require significant efforts and expenditures. Our future financial results will depend in part on whether our new or updated products and services receive sufficient customer acceptance. These products and services include, without limitation: • electronic billing, payment and remittance services for payers and providers that complement our existing paper-based patient billing and payment and payment distribution services; • electronic prescriptions from healthcare providers to pharmacies and pharmacy benefit managers; • our other pre- and post-adjudication services for payers and providers; and • decision support, clinical exchange, payment integrity, fraud and abuse management or other business intelligence solutions. Achieving market acceptance for new or updated products and services is likely to require substantial marketing efforts and expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by constituents in the healthcare industry. In addition, deployment of new or updated products and services may require the use of additional resources for training our existing sales force and customer service personnel and for hiring and training additional salespersons and customer service personnel. Failure to achieve broad penetration in target markets with respect to new or updated products and services could have an adverse effect on our business prospects and financial results. There are increased risks of performance problems during times when we are making significant changes to our products and services or to systems we use to provide services. In addition, implementation of our products and services and efficiency measures and other cost savings initiatives may cost more, may not provide the benefits expected or may take longer than anticipated. In order to respond to technological and regulatory changes and evolving industry standards, our products and services must be continually updated and enhanced. The software and systems that we sell and that we use to provide services are inherently complex and, despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in any changes, enhancements, updates and new versions that we market or use. Even if new or modified products and services do not have performance problems, our technical and customer service personnel may have difficulties in installing them or in their efforts to provide any necessary training and support to customers. Implementation of changes in our technology and systems may cost more or take longer than originally expected and may require more testing than originally anticipated. While the new hardware and software will be tested before it is used in production, we cannot be sure that the testing will uncover all problems that may occur in actual use. If significant problems occur as a result of these changes, we may fail to meet our contractual obligations to customers, which could result in claims being made against us or in the loss of 24 Table of Contents customer relationships. In addition, changes in our technology and systems may not provide the additional functionality or other benefits that were expected. In addition, we also periodically implement efficiency measures and other cost saving initiatives to improve our operating performance. These efficiency measures and other cost saving initiatives may not provide the benefits anticipated or do so in the time frame expected. Disruptions in service or damages to our data or other operation centers, or other software or systems failures, could adversely affect our business. Our data centers and operation centers are essential to our business. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, many of which are located in our primary data centers that we operate in Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee. We also operate several satellite data centers that we plan to consolidate over time to our primary data centers. Our business and results of operations are also highly dependent on our print and mail operations, which are primarily conducted in print and mail operations centers in Bridgeton, Missouri and Toledo, Ohio. We conduct business continuity planning and maintain insurance against fires, floods, other natural disasters and general business interruptions to mitigate the adverse effects of a disruption, relocation or change in operating environment at one of our data centers, print and mail facilities or other locations; however, the situations we plan for and the amount of insurance coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in service to users of our products and services, which could impair or prohibit our ability to provide our products and services, reduce the attractiveness of our products and services to our customers and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure, data centers or systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks, terrorist attacks or other attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any of these can cause system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which can result in service disruptions or increased response time for our products and services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. We also rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide us with a variety of products and services, including telecommunications and data processing services necessary for our transaction services and processing functions and software developers for the development and maintenance of certain software products we use to provide our solutions. If these suppliers do not fulfill their contractual obligations or choose to discontinue their products or services, our business and operations could be disrupted, our brand and reputation could be harmed and our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We may be liable to our customers and may lose customers if we provide poor service, if our products and services do not comply with our agreements or if our software products or transmission systems contain errors or experience failures. We must meet our customers’ service level expectations and our contractual obligations with respect to our products and services. Failure to do so could subject us to liability, as well as cause us to lose customers. In some cases, we rely upon third party contractors to assist us in providing our products and services. Our ability to meet our contractual obligations and customer expectations may be impacted by the performance of our third party contractors and their ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations. For example, our electronic payment and remittance services depend in part on the ability of our vendors to comply with applicable banking and financial service requirements and their failure to do so could cause an interruption in the services we provide or require us to seek alternative solutions or relationships. Errors in the software and systems we provide to customers or the software and systems we use to provide our products and services also could cause serious problems for our customers. In addition, because of the large amount of data we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures and errors in our systems would result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. For example, errors in our transaction processing systems 25 Table of Contents can result in payers paying the wrong amount, making payments to the wrong payee or delaying payments. Since some of our products and services relate to laboratory ordering and reporting and electronic prescriptions, an error in our systems also could result in injury to a patient. If problems like these occur, our customers may seek compensation from us or may seek to terminate their agreements with us, withhold payments due to us, seek refunds from us of part or all of the fees charged under our agreements, a loan or advancement of funds, or initiate litigation or other dispute resolution procedures. In addition, we may be subject to claims against us by others affected by any such problems. In addition, our activities and the activities of our third party contractors involve the storage, use and transmission of personal health information. Accordingly, security breaches of our or their computer systems or at print and mail operation centers could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation, government enforcement actions and contractual liabilities. We cannot be certain that contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas will be successful or enforceable, or that other parties will accept such contractual provisions as part of our agreements. Any security breaches also could impact our ability to provide our products and services, as well as impact the confidence of our customers in our products and services, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We attempt to limit, by contract, our liability for damages arising from our negligence, errors, mistakes or security breaches. However, contractual limitations on liability may not be enforceable or may otherwise not provide sufficient protection to us from liability for damages. We maintain liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions. It is possible, however, that claims could exceed the amount of our applicable insurance coverage, if any, or that this coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against them could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention away from our operations. In addition, negative publicity caused by these events may delay market acceptance of our products and services, including unrelated products and services, or may harm our reputation and our business. Our business will suffer if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies or to appropriately assess the risks in particular transactions. We have historically acquired and, in the future, plan to acquire, businesses, technologies, services, product lines and other assets. For example, in January 2010, we acquired FVTech and intend to integrate its operations with our business. The successful integration of any businesses and assets we acquire into our operations, on a cost-effective basis, can be critical to our future performance. The amount and timing of the expected benefits of any acquisition, including potential synergies between our current business and the acquired business, are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those relating to: • our ability to maintain relationships with the customers of the acquired business; • our ability to cross-sell products and services to customers with which we have established relationships and those with which the acquired businesses have established relationships; • our ability to retain or replace key personnel; • potential conflicts in payer, provider, pharmacy, vendor or marketing relationships; • our ability to coordinate organizations that are geographically diverse and may have different business cultures; and • compliance with regulatory requirements. We cannot guarantee that any acquired businesses will be successfully integrated with our operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or to achieve anticipated operating synergies, revenue enhancements or cost savings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our management attempts to evaluate the risks inherent in each transaction and to evaluate acquisition candidates appropriately, we may not properly ascertain all such risks and the acquired businesses and assets may not perform as we expect or enhance the value of our company as a whole. In addition, 26 Table of Contents acquired companies or businesses may have larger than expected liabilities that are not covered by the indemnification, if any, that we are able to obtain from the sellers. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of $894.0 million of outstanding indebtedness (before deduction of unamortized debt discount of $53.3 million and including an obligation under our data sublicense agreement of $37.6 million) and we had the ability to borrow an additional $44.2 million under our revolving credit facility. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Our substantial amount of indebtedness could limit our ability to: • obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes in the future; • plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • make future acquisitions or pursue other business opportunities; and • react in an extended economic downturn. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt. The incurrence of additional debt could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness. In addition, because borrowings under our credit agreements bear interest at a variable rate, our interest expense could increase, and thus exacerbate these risks. For instance, assuming an aggregate principal balance of $856.4 million outstanding under our credit agreements, which was the amount outstanding as of December 31, 2009, and considering the effect of our interest rate swap agreement, a 1% increase in the interest rate we are charged on our debt would increase our annual interest expense by $5.0 million. Recent events in the credit markets may affect our ability to refinance our existing debt or obtain additional debt financing on acceptable terms. We may need or seek additional financing in the future to either refinance our existing indebtedness or to fund our operations, fund acquisitions, develop additional products and services or implement other projects. Given the state of the current credit environment resulting from, among other things, the general weakening of the global economy, it may be difficult to refinance our existing indebtedness or obtain any such additional financing on acceptable terms, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, including our results of operations and/or business plans. In addition, if as a result of the current conditions in the credit markets any of the lenders participating in our revolving credit facility are unable to fund borrowings under such facility, our liquidity could be adversely affected. The terms of our credit agreements may restrict our current and future operations, which would adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our credit agreements contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • issue preferred stock; • create liens; • create or incur contingent obligations; • engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • make investments and acquisitions; 27 Table of Contents • enter into hedging arrangements; • make capital expenditures; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. Our credit agreements also require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our credit agreements could result in an event of default under the applicable facility which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. A change of control of our company is also an event of default under our credit agreements. Under our credit agreements, a change of control of our company will occur if any person other than the Principal Equityholders or us or our subsidiaries acquires, directly or indirectly, more than 35% of the outstanding equity interests of EBS Master and at the time of the acquisition the Principal Equityholders do not collectively hold equity interests of EBS Master representing greater voting power in EBS Master than such person. In the event of any default under our first lien credit agreement, the lenders under that agreement will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us. In addition, upon the occurrence of an event of default under either of our credit agreements, the lenders under both credit agreements could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these amounts. If the indebtedness under our credit agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay this indebtedness in full. Recent and future developments in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. National healthcare reform is currently a major focus at the federal level. Both houses of the U.S. Congress have passed healthcare reform bills in recent months, but it is uncertain if and how these bills will be reconciled or whether the provisions of either bill will become law. In addition, there are currently numerous federal, state and private initiatives and studies seeking ways to increase the use of information technology in healthcare as a means of improving care and reducing costs. These initiatives may result in additional or costly legal and regulatory requirements that are applicable to us and our customers, may encourage more companies to enter our markets, may provide advantages to our competitors and may result in the development of technology solutions that compete with ours. Any such reforms or initiatives, whether private or governmental, may result in a reduction of expenditures by customers or potential customers in the healthcare industry, which could have an adverse effect on our business. General reductions in expenditures by healthcare industry constituents could result from, among other things: • government regulation or private initiatives that affect the manner in which providers interact with patients, payers or other healthcare industry constituents, including changes in pricing or means of delivery of healthcare products and services; • reductions in governmental funding for healthcare; and • adverse changes in business or economic conditions affecting payers, providers, pharmaceutical companies, medical device manufacturers or other healthcare industry constituents. Even if general expenditures by industry constituents remain the same or increase, other developments in the healthcare industry may result in reduced spending on information technology and services or in some or all of the specific markets we serve or are planning to serve. In addition, our customers’ expectations regarding pending or potential industry developments may also affect their budgeting processes and spending plans with respect to the types of products and services we provide. For example, use of our products and services could be affected by: • changes in the billing patterns of providers; • changes in the design of health insurance plans; 28 Table of Contents • changes in the contracting methods payers use in their relationships with providers; and • decreases in marketing expenditures by pharmaceutical companies or medical device manufacturers, as a result of governmental regulation or private initiatives that discourage or prohibit promotional activities by pharmaceutical or medical device companies. The healthcare industry has changed significantly in recent years and we expect that significant changes will continue to occur. The timing and impact of developments in the healthcare industry are difficult to predict. We cannot be sure that the markets for our products and services will continue to exist at current levels or that we will have adequate technical, financial and marketing resources to react to changes in those markets. Government regulation creates risks and challenges with respect to our compliance efforts and our business strategies. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Many healthcare laws are complex, and their application to specific services and relationships may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information products and services that we provide, and these laws and regulations may be applied to our products and services in ways that we do not anticipate. Federal and state legislatures and agencies periodically consider proposals to reform or revise aspects of the healthcare industry or to revise or create additional statutory and regulatory requirements. In the final months of 2009, both houses of the U.S. Congress passed separate bills intended to reform the healthcare system. While neither of these bills has yet become law, such laws or similar proposals, if implemented, could impact our operations, the use of our products or services and our ability to market new products and services, or could create unexpected liabilities for us. We may also be impacted by non-healthcare laws as a result of some of our products and services. For example, laws, regulations and industry standards regulating the banking and financial services industry may impact our operations as a result of the electronic payment and remittance services we offer directly or through third party vendors. We are unable to predict what changes to laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the costs of compliance. We have attempted to structure our operations to comply with legal requirements applicable to us directly and to our clients and third party contractors, but there can be no assurance that our operations will not be challenged or impacted by enforcement initiatives. Any determination by a court or agency that our products and services violate, or cause our customers to violate, applicable laws or regulations could subject us or our customers to civil or criminal penalties. Such a determination could also require us to change or terminate portions of our business, disqualify us from serving customers who are or do business with government entities, or cause us to refund some or all of our service fees or otherwise compensate our customers. In addition, failure to satisfy laws or regulations could adversely affect demand for our products and services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to address the failure. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities or private whistleblowers could result in loss of business, exposure to adverse publicity and injury to our reputation and could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract clients. Laws and regulations impacting our operations include the following: • Data Protection and Breaches. In recent years, there have been a number of well-publicized data breaches involving the improper dissemination of personal information of individuals both within and outside of the healthcare industry. Many states have responded to these incidents by enacting laws requiring holders of personal information to maintain safeguards and to take certain actions in response to a data breach, such as providing prompt notification of the breach to affected individuals. In many cases, these laws are limited to electronic data, but states are increasingly enacting or considering stricter and broader requirements. As required by ARRA, HHS published an interim final rule on August 24, 2009, which requires Covered Entities to report breaches of unsecured protected health information to affected individuals without unreasonable delay but not to exceed 60 days of discovery of the breach by a Covered Entity or its agents. Notification must also be made to HHS and, in certain circumstances involving large breaches, to the media. Business Associates must report breaches of unsecured protected health information to Covered Entities within 60 days of discovery of the breach by the Business Associate or its agents. In addition, the FTC has prosecuted some data breach cases as 29 Table of Contents unfair and deceptive acts or practices under the Federal Trade Commission Act. Further, some of our customers are subject to a new federal rule requiring creditors, which may include health providers and health plans, to implement identity theft prevention programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with customer accounts. We may be required to apply additional resources to our existing process to assist our customers in complying with this rule. We have implemented and maintain physical, technical and administrative safeguards intended to protect all personal data and have processes in place to assist us in complying with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the protection of this data and properly responding to any security breaches or incidents; however, we cannot be sure that these safeguards are adequate to protect all personal data or assist us in complying with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data. • HIPAA and Other Privacy and Security Requirements. There are numerous federal and state laws and regulations related to the privacy and security of personal health information. In particular, regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA established privacy and security standards that limit the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information and that require the implementation of administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Our operations as a healthcare clearinghouse are directly subject to the Privacy Standards and Security Standards. In addition, our payer and provider customers are also directly subject to the Privacy Standards and Security Standards and are required to enter into written agreements with us, known as business associate agreements, which require us to safeguard individually identifiable health information and restrict how we may use and disclose such information. Effective February 17, 2010, ARRA extended the direct application of certain provisions of the Privacy Standards and Security Standards to us when we are functioning as a Business Associate of our payer or provider customers. Violations of the Privacy Standards and Security Standards may result in civil and criminal penalties, and ARRA has increased the penalties for HIPAA violations and strengthened the enforcement provisions of HIPAA. Recently, enforcement activities appear to have increased, and ARRA may further increase such enforcement activities. For example, ARRA authorizes state attorneys general to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of Privacy Standards and Security Standards that threaten the privacy of state residents. • HIPAA Transaction and Identifier Standards. HIPAA and its implementing regulations also mandate format, data content and provider identifier standards that must be used in certain electronic transactions, such as claims, payment advice and eligibility inquiries. Although our systems are fully capable of transmitting transactions that comply with these requirements, some payers and healthcare clearinghouses with which we conduct business interpret HIPAA transaction requirements differently than we do or may require us to use legacy formats or include legacy identifiers as they transition to full compliance. Where payers or healthcare clearinghouses require conformity with their interpretations or require us to accommodate legacy transactions or identifiers as a condition of successful transactions, we seek to comply with their requirements, but may be subject to enforcement actions as a result. In January 2009, CMS published a final rule adopting updated standard code sets for diagnoses and procedures known as the ICD-10 code sets. A separate final rule also published by CMS in January 2009 resulted in changes to the formats to be used for electronic transactions subject to the ICD-10 code sets, known as Version 5010. While use of the ICD-10 code sets is not mandatory until October 1, 2013 and the use of Version 5010 is not mandatory until January 1, 2012, we have begun to modify our payment systems and processes to prepare for their implementation. We may not be successful in responding to these changes and any responsive changes we make to our transactions and software may result in errors or otherwise negatively impact our service levels. We may also experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. • Anti-Kickback and Anti-Bribery Laws. A number of federal and state laws govern patient referrals, financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources and inducements to providers and patients. For example, the federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits any person or entity from offering, paying, soliciting or receiving, directly or indirectly, anything of value with the intent of generating 30 Table of Contents referrals of patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Many states also have similar anti-kickback laws that are not necessarily limited to items or services for which payment is made by a federal healthcare program. Moreover, both federal and state laws forbid bribery and similar behavior. Any determination by a state or federal regulatory agency that any of our activities or those of our customers or vendors violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund a portion of our service fees, could disqualify us from providing services to customers doing business with government programs and could have an adverse effect on our business. Even an unsuccessful challenge by regulatory authorities of our activities could result in adverse publicity and could require a costly response from us. • False or Fraudulent Claim Laws. There are numerous federal and state laws that prohibit false or fraudulent claims. False or fraudulent claims include, but are not limited to, billing for services not rendered, failing to refund known overpayments, misrepresenting actual services rendered, improper coding and billing for medically unnecessary items or services. The FCA and some state false claims laws contain whistleblower provisions that allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the government. Whistleblowers, the federal government and some courts have taken the position that entities that have violated other statutes, such as the federal anti-kickback law, have thereby submitted false claims under the FCA. We rely on our customers to provide us with accurate and complete information. Errors and the unintended consequences of data manipulations by us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations or could adversely impact the compliance of our customers. • Banking and Financial Services Industry Laws. The banking and is subject to numerous laws, regulations and industry standards, some of which may impact our operations and subject us, our vendors or our customers to liability as a result of the payment distribution products and services we offer. Although we do not act as a bank, we offer products and services that involve banks, or vendors who contract with banks and other regulated providers of financial services. As a result, we may be impacted by banking and financial services industry laws, regulations and industry standards, such as licensing requirements, solvency standards, requirements to maintain the privacy and security of nonpublic personal financial information and FDIC deposit insurance limits. Further, our payment distribution products and services may impact the ability of our payer customers to comply with state prompt payment laws. These laws require payers to pay healthcare claims meeting the statutory or regulatory definition of a “clean claim” to be paid within a specified time frame. Legislative changes may impede our ability to utilize our off-shore service capabilities. In our operations, we have contractors in India and China who may have access to patient health information in order to assist us in performing services to our customers. In recent sessions, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would restrict the transmission of personally identifiable information regarding a U.S. resident to any foreign affiliate, subcontractor or unaffiliated third party without adequate privacy protections or without providing notice of the transmission and an opportunity to opt out. Some of the proposals considered would have required patient consent and imposed liability on healthcare businesses arising from the improper sharing or other misuse of personally identifiable information. Congress also has considered creating a private civil cause of action that would allow an injured party to recover damages sustained as a result of a violation of these proposed restrictions. A number of states have also considered, or are in the process of considering, prohibitions or limitations on the disclosure of medical or other personal information to individuals or entities located outside of the United States. If legislation of this type is enacted, our ability to utilize off-shore resources may be impeded, and we may be subject to sanctions for failure to comply with the new mandates of the legislation. In addition, the enactment of such legislation could result in such work being performed at a lower margin of profitability, or even at a loss. Further, as a result of concerns regarding the possible misuse of personally identifiable information, some of our customers have contractually limited our ability to use our off-shore resources. Use of off-shore resources may increase our risk of violating 31 Table of Contents our contractual obligations to our customers to protect the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information provided to us, which could adversely impact our reputation and operating results. Failure by our customers to obtain proper permissions or provide us with accurate and appropriate data may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data which could harm our business. We require our customers to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions for the use and disclosure of the information that we receive. If they do not provide necessary notices or obtain necessary permissions, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. Such failures by our customers could impair our functions, processes and databases that reflect, contain or are based upon such data. For example, as part of our claims submission services, we rely on our customers to provide us with accurate and appropriate data and directives for our actions. While we have implemented features and safeguards designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims content, these features and safeguards may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payers. In addition, such failures by our customers could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules, analyses or other data-driven activities that benefit us. Accordingly, we may be subject to claims or liability for inaccurate claims data submitted to payers or for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice or permission. These claims or liabilities could damage our reputation, subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Certain of our products and services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or contractors with respect to third parties. Among other things, our products and services include printing and mailing checks and/or facilitating electronic funds transfers for our payer customers and handling mail and payments from payers and from patients for many of our customers. These services frequently include handling original checks and/or credit card information and occasionally may include currency. Even in those cases in which we do not facilitate payments or handle original documents or mail, our services also involve the use and disclosure of personal and business information that could be used to impersonate third parties or otherwise gain access to their data or funds. If any of our employees or contractors takes, converts or misuses such funds, documents or data, or we experience a data breach creating a risk of identity theft, we could be liable for damages, and our business reputation could be damaged or destroyed. In addition, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents or data and, therefore, be subject to civil or criminal liability. Federal and state regulators may take the position that a data breach or misdirection of data constitutes an unfair or deceptive act or trade practice. We also may be required to notify individuals affected by any data breaches. Further, a data breach or similar incident could impact the ability of our customers that are creditors to comply with the federal “red flags” rule, which requires the implementation of identity theft prevention programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with customer accounts. Contractual relationships with customers that are governmental agencies or are funded by government programs may impose special burdens on us and provide special benefits to those customers. A portion of our revenues comes from customers that are governmental agencies or are funded by government programs. Our contracts and subcontracts may be subject to some or all of the following: • termination when appropriated funding for the current fiscal year is exhausted; • termination for the governmental customer’s convenience, subject to a negotiated settlement for costs incurred and profit on work completed, along with the right to place contracts out for bid before the full contract term, as well as the right to make unilateral changes in contract requirements, subject to negotiated price adjustments; • compliance and reporting requirements related to, among other things, agency specific policies and regulations, equal employment opportunity, affirmative action for veterans and workers with disabilities and accessibility for the disabled; • broad audit rights; and 32 Table of Contents • specialized remedies for breach and default, including setoff rights, retroactive price adjustments and civil or criminal fraud penalties, as well as mandatory administrative dispute resolution procedures instead of state contract law remedies. In addition, certain violations of federal and state law may subject us to having our contracts terminated and, under certain circumstances, suspension and/or debarment from future government contracts. We are also subject to conflict-of-interest rules that may affect our eligibility for some government contracts, including rules applicable to all U.S. government contracts, as well as rules applicable to the specific agencies with which we have contracts or with which we may seek to enter into contracts. The protection of our intellectual property requires substantial resources. We rely upon a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect the intellectual property used in our business. The steps we have taken to protect and enforce our proprietary rights and intellectual property may not be adequate. For instance, we may not be able to secure trademark or service mark registrations for marks in the U.S. or in foreign countries or take similar steps to secure patents for our proprietary applications. Third parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and similar proprietary rights, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we believe a third party has misappropriated our intellectual property, litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect those rights, which would divert management resources, would be expensive and may not effectively protect our intellectual property. As a result, if anyone misappropriates our intellectual property, it may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. We could be subject to claims that we are misappropriating or infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend and divert management’s attention from our operations. If we become liable to third parties for infringing these rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products or services that use or contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing products or services or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to indemnify our customers if they become subject to third party claims relating to intellectual property that we license or otherwise provide to them, which could be costly. A write-off of all or a part of our identifiable intangible assets or goodwill would hurt our operating results and reduce our net worth. We have significant identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired. As of December 31, 2009, we had $989.3 million of identifiable intangible assets and $703.0 million of goodwill on our balance sheet, which represented in excess of 75.8% of our total assets. We amortize identifiable intangible assets over their estimated useful lives which range from 1 to 20 years. We also evaluate our goodwill for impairment at least annually using a combination of valuation methodologies. Because one of the valuation methodologies we use is impacted by market conditions, the likelihood and severity of an impairment charge increases during periods of market volatility, such as the one that recently occurred as a result of the general weakening of the global economy. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under U.S. accounting standards. In the event an impairment of goodwill is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although it does not affect our cash flow, a write-off in future periods of all or a part of these assets would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Goodwill and Intangible Assets” in Part II, Item 7. of this Annual Report. 33 Table of Contents We are dependent on the continued service of key executives, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management team including, George I. Lazenby, IV (Chief Executive Officer), Tracy Bahl (Executive Chairman), Bob A. Newport, Jr. (Chief Financial Officer), Gregory T. Stevens (Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary), J. Philip Hardin (Executive Vice President — Provider Services), Gary D. Stuart (Executive Vice President — Payer Services) and Mark Lyle (Senior Vice President — Pharmacy Services). We have entered into agreements with each member of our senior management team that restrict their ability to compete with us should they decide to leave our company. Even though we have entered into these agreements, we cannot be sure that any member of our senior management team will remain with us or that they will not compete with us in the future. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce revenues, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees. Our success depends in part on our ability to identify, recruit and retain skilled management and technical personnel. If we fail to recruit and retain suitable candidates or if our relationship with our employees changes or deteriorates, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends upon our continuing ability to identify, attract, hire and retain highly qualified personnel, including skilled technical, management, product and technology and sales and marketing personnel, all of whom are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified personnel in the healthcare information technology and services industry is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our requirements, or that we will be able to do so at salary, benefit and other compensation costs that are acceptable to us. A loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for expansion of our business, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, while none of our employees are currently unionized, unionization of our employees is possible in the future. Such unionizing activities could be costly to address and, if successful, would likely adversely impact our operations. A prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. economy is currently experiencing a significant economic downturn. We are unable to predict the likely duration or ultimate severity of the economic downturn and there can be no assurance that current economic conditions will not worsen. A prolonged or further weakening of economic conditions could lead to reductions in demand for our products and services. For example, a sustained recession could reduce the amount of income patients are able to spend on healthcare services. As a result, patients may elect to delay or forgo seeking healthcare services, which could decrease our transaction volumes or decrease payer and provider demand for our products and services. Also, prolonged high unemployment rates could cause commercial payer membership to decline which could result in lower transaction volumes in our business. In addition, as a result of weak economic conditions, we may experience the negative effects of increased financial pressures on our payer and provider customers. For instance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted by increased competitive pricing pressure and a decline in our customers’ credit worthiness, which could result in us incurring increased bad debt expense. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from a weak economic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Lengthy sales, installation and implementation cycles for some of our applications may result in delays or an inability to generate revenues from these applications. Sales of complex revenue and payment cycle management solutions and electronic medical records applications may result in longer sales, contracting and implementation cycles for our customers. These sales may be subject to delays due to customers’ internal procedures for deploying new technologies and processes and implementation may be subject to delays based on the availability of the internal customer resources needed. The use of our solutions may also be delayed due to reluctance to change or modify existing 34 Table of Contents procedures. We are unable to control many of the factors that will influence the timing of the buying decisions of potential customers or the pace at which installation and training may occur. If we experience longer sales, contracting and implementation cycles for our solutions, we may experience delays in generating, or an inability to generate revenue from these solutions, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Risks Related to our Organization and Structure We are a holding company and our principal asset is our ownership of equity interests in EBS Master, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from EBS Master to pay dividends, if any, taxes and other expenses. We are a holding company and our principal asset is our ownership of units of membership interest in EBS Master (“EBS Units”). We have no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause EBS Master to make distributions to its unitholders, including us, in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable but are limited in our ability to cause EBS Master to make these and other distributions to us (including for purposes of paying corporate and other overhead expenses and dividends) due to the terms of our credit agreements. To the extent that we need funds and EBS Master is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, as a result of the terms in our credit agreements or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We are controlled by our Principal Equityholders whose interest in our business may be different than the interests of our other stockholders, and certain statutory provisions afforded to stockholders are not applicable to us. Together, our Principal Equityholders control approximately 72.6% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock. We are subject to a Stockholders Agreement with the General Atlantic Equityholders, the H&F Equityholders and certain individuals, including certain members of our senior management team and board of directors that received EBS Units and unvested options to purchase shares of our Class A common stock as part of the reorganization of the Company prior to our IPO (the “EBS Equity Plan Members”). Under the Stockholders Agreement, our Principal Equityholders are entitled to nominate a majority of the members of our board of directors and each of the Principal Equityholders has agreed to vote for all of such nominees. Accordingly, our Principal Equityholders can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the power to nominate a majority our board of directors. In addition, the Principal Stockholders can control any action requiring the general approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership and voting power of our Principal Equityholders may also delay, defer or even prevent an acquisition by a third party or other change of control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of our Principal Equityholders, even if such events are in the best interests of minority stockholders. The concentration of voting power among the Principal Equityholders may have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. We have opted out of section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which we refer to as the “Delaware General Corporation Law,” which prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination transaction with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the interested stockholder became such unless the transaction fits within an applicable exemption, such as board approval of the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. Therefore, the General Atlantic Equityholders and the H&F Equityholders are able to transfer control of us to a third party by transferring their common stock (subject to the restrictions in the Stockholders Agreement), which would not require the approval of our board of directors or our other stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of “corporate opportunity” will not apply against the General Atlantic Equityholders, the H&F Equityholders or any of our directors who are employees of the Principal Equityholders, in a manner that would prohibit them from investing in competing businesses or doing business with our customers. To the extent they invest in such other businesses, 35 Table of Contents our Principal Equityholders may have differing interests than our other stockholders. In addition, under the EBS Master LLC Agreement, the members of EBS Master, including the EBS Equity Plan Members and the affiliates of the H&F Equityholders that hold EBS Units or their successors (the “H&F Continuing LLC Members”), have agreed that the H&F Continuing LLC Members and/or one or more of their respective affiliates are permitted to engage in business activities or invest in or acquire businesses which may compete with our business or do business with any client of ours. We have elected to be exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since we are a “Controlled Company” within the meaning of the NYSE Rules and, as a result, our stockholders do not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements for so long as our election continues. Together, our Principal Equityholders control more than 50% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements and therefore we are eligible for, and have elected to take advantage of, exemptions from certain NYSE listing requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors and our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, for so long as we remain a “controlled company” and elect to opt out of these provisions, our stockholders do not and will not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE governance requirements, and the ability of our independent directors to influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced. We are required to pay an affiliate of our Principal Equityholders and the EBS Equity Plan Members for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. The EBS Units (along with a corresponding number of shares of our Class B common stock) held by the H&F Continuing LLC Members and EBS Equity Plan Members are exchangeable in the future for cash or shares of our Class A common stock. These future exchanges are likely to result in tax basis adjustments to the assets of EBS Master, which adjustments would also be allocated to us. Both the existing and the anticipated basis adjustments are expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. Additionally, we have entered into two tax receivable agreements with an entity controlled by the Principal Equityholders (the “Tax Receivable Entity”). One tax receivable agreement generally provides for the payment by us to the Tax Receivable Entity of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of (i) any step-up in tax basis in EBS Master’s assets resulting from the purchases by us and our subsidiaries of EBS Units prior to our IPO; (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of this tax receivable agreement; and (iii) loss carryovers from prior periods (or portions thereof). The second of these tax receivable agreements generally provides for the payment by us to the Tax Receivable Entity of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of (i) any step-up in tax basis in EBS Master’s assets resulting from (a) exchanges by the H&F Continuing LLC Members of EBS Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class B common stock) for cash or shares of our Class A common stock or (b) payments under this tax receivable agreement to the Tax Receivable Entity and (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of this tax receivable agreement. We have also entered into a third tax receivable agreement with the EBS Equity Plan Members which will generally provide for the payment by us to the EBS Equity Plan Members of 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of (i) any step-up in tax basis in EBS Master’s assets resulting from (a) the purchases by us and our subsidiaries of EBS Units from the EBS Equity Plan Members using a portion of the proceeds from our IPO, (b) the exchanges by the EBS Equity Plan Members of EBS Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class B common stock) for cash or shares of our Class A common stock or (c) payments under this tax receivable agreement to the EBS Equity Plan Members and (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of this tax receivable agreement. 36 Table of Contents The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreements, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges by the H&F Continuing LLC Members or the EBS Equity Plan Members, as applicable, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable, our use of loss carryovers and the portion of our payments under the tax receivable agreements constituting imputed interest or amortizable basis. The payments we will be required to make under the tax receivable agreements could be substantial. We estimate that, as a result of the amount of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of EBS Master and the loss carryovers from prior periods (or portions thereof), assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize in full the potential tax benefit described above, future payments under the tax receivable agreements in respect of the purchases and the loss carryovers will aggregate approximately $142 million and range from approximately $5 million to $25 million per year over the next 15 years. These amounts reflect only the cash savings attributable to current tax attributes resulting from the purchases and the loss carryovers. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments from these tax attributes. Future payments under the tax receivable agreements in respect of subsequent acquisitions of EBS Units would be in addition to these amounts. In addition, although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service to challenge the tax basis increases or other benefits arising under the tax receivable agreements, the Tax Receivable Entity and the EBS Equity Plan Members will not reimburse us for any payments previously made if such basis increases or other benefits are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to the Tax Receivable Entity or the EBS Equity Plan Members will be netted against payments otherwise to be made, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, we could make payments under the tax receivable agreements that are greater than our actual cash tax savings and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Finally, because we are a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to make payments under the tax receivable agreements is substantially dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us. Our credit agreements restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which could affect our ability to make payments under the tax receivable agreements. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the tax receivable agreements for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid, which could adversely affect our results of operations and could also affect our liquidity in periods in which such payments are made. Rights to receive payments under the tax receivable agreements may be terminated by the Tax Receivable Entity or the EBS Equity Plan Members, as applicable, if as the result of an actual or proposed change in law, the existence of the agreements would cause recognition of ordinary income (instead of capital gain) in connection with future exchanges of EBS Units for cash or shares of our Class A common stock or would otherwise have material adverse tax consequences to the Tax Receivable Entity, its owners or the EBS Equity Plan Members. There are legislative proposals pending in Congress that, if enacted in their present form, may result in such ordinary income recognition. Further, in the event of such a termination, the Tax Receivable Entity or the EBS Equity Plan Members would have the right, subject to the delivery of an appropriate tax opinion, to require us to determine a lump sum amount in lieu of the payments otherwise provided under the agreements. That lump sum amount would be calculated by increasing the portion of the tax savings retained by us to 30% (from 15%) and by calculating a present value for the total amount that would otherwise be payable under the agreements, using a discount rate equal to the lesser of LIBOR plus 100 basis points and 6.5% per annum and assumptions as to income tax rates and as to our ability to utilize the tax benefits (including the assumption that we will have sufficient taxable income). If the assumptions used in this calculation turn out not to be true, we may pay more or less than the specified percentage of our actual cash tax savings. This lump sum amount may be paid in cash or by a subordinated note with a seven-year maturity and an interest rate equal to the lesser of LIBOR plus 200 basis points and 6% per annum. Any such acceleration can occur only if the Tax Receivable Entity or any EBS Equity Plan Member, as applicable, has terminated a substantial portion of our obligations (or, in the case of an EBS Equity Plan Member, such 37 Table of Contents Member’s share of our obligations) under the applicable tax receivable agreement with respect to exchanges of units. The ultimate impact of a decision to accelerate will depend on what the ongoing payments would have been under the tax receivable agreement absent acceleration, which will in turn depend on the various factors mentioned above. In addition, the tax receivable agreements provide that, upon certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combination or certain other changes of control, our or our successor’s obligations with respect to tax benefits would be based on certain assumptions, including that we or our successor would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits covered by the tax receivable agreements. As a result, upon a change of control, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreements that are greater than or less than the specified percentage of our actual cash tax savings. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, and your investment in our Class A common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report, these factors include: • our actual or anticipated operating performance and growth and the actual or anticipated operating performance and growth of our competitors; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • actions of our historical equity investors, including sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers; • public response to press releases and other announcements by us and our competitors, including announcements of acquisitions, business developments and new products and services; • changes to our senior management team; • legal and regulatory changes; • publication of research reports or news stories about us, our competitors or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; and • general economic, industry and market conditions, and in particular those conditions specific to the healthcare industry. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology-based companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of companies’ securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could entail substantial costs, divert our management’s time and attention from operational matters and harm our business, operating results and financial condition and, as a result, may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and, because we are a holding company, we may be unable to pay dividends. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Class A common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. 38 Table of Contents Furthermore, because we are a holding company, any dividend payments would depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. However, our credit agreements limit the amount of distributions our subsidiaries (including EBS Master) can make to us and the purposes for which distributions could be made. Accordingly, we may not be able to pay dividends even if our board of directors would otherwise deem it appropriate. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7. of this Annual Report.. For the foregoing reasons, you will not be able to rely on dividends on our Class A common stock to receive a return on your investment. Provisions in our organizational documents may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their Class A common stock. The provisions include, among others: • provisions relating to the number of directors on our board of directors and the appointment of directors upon an increase in the number of directors or vacancy on our board of directors; • provisions requiring a 662/3% stockholder vote for the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, such as provisions relating to the election of directors and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or call a special meeting, and for the adoption, amendment and repeal of our by-laws; • provisions barring stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders or requiring one to be called; • elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; and • provisions that set forth advance notice procedures for stockholders’ nominations of directors and proposals for consideration at meetings of stockholders. These provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Class A common stock in the future which could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock. We have and will continue to incur additional costs as a result of becoming a public company, and our management may be required to devote substantial time and attention to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur significant levels of legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a privately-owned corporation. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) and related rules of the SEC and the NYSE corporate governance practices for public companies impose significant requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Our management and other personnel continue to devote a substantial amount of time and attention to these compliance initiatives, and additional laws may divert further management resources. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with these requirements and with the requirements of new compliance initiatives in a timely manner, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the NYSE or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. To date, we have not identified any material weaknesses related to our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, although we have not conducted an audit of our controls. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are also in the process of evaluating how to document and test our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to 39 Table of Contents assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010. During the course of this documentation and testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may be unable to remedy before the requisite deadline for those reports. Our auditors have not conducted an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to remediate material weaknesses noted by us or our independent registered public accounting firm or to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our Class A common stock could drop significantly. Failure to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the FINRA, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 