ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy has recently experienced a recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have negatively affected the performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. At the onset of the recession, New Jersey and our local market area did not experience a significant downturn. However, as the economic downturn has persisted, our local economy is mirroring the overall economy. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in Atlantic or Cape May Counties in New Jersey. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy, which is heavily dependent on the gaming and tourism industries, could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would hurt our revenues. Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2010, $514.9 million, or 77.8%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and $57.1 million, or 5.9%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Because of our location on the South Jersey shore, many of the properties securing our residential mortgages are second homes or rental properties. At December 31, 2010, 38.6% of our one- to four-family mortgage loans were secured by second homes and 11.5% were secured by rental properties. These loans generally are considered to be more risky than loans secured by the borrower’s permanent residence, since the borrower is typically dependent upon rental income to meet debt service requirements, in the case of a rental property, and when in financial difficulty is more likely to make payments on the loan secured by the borrower’s primary residence before a vacation home. Commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2010, $55.2 million, or 8.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, commercial construction loans and commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 16 Table of Contents Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The recent decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss provisions in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the Office of Thrift Supervision after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 0.60% of total loans outstanding and 77.1% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2010. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2010, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment throughout the year. Each investment that has a fair value less than book value is reviewed on a quarterly basis. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management’s review concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. As of December 31, 2010, our investment portfolio included six corporate debt securities with a book value of $8.2 million and an estimated fair value of $6.4 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down the value of these securities. At December 31, 2010, we had an investment of $6.3 million in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of Federal Home Loan Bank stock may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $324 thousand. In lieu of 17 Table of Contents imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.7 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2010, which is the most recent date for which information is available, we held 7.2% of the deposits in Atlantic County, New Jersey, which was the 6th largest share of deposits out of 16 financial institutions with offices in the county, and 8.9% of the deposits in Cape May County, New Jersey, which was the 6th largest share of deposits out of 14 financial institutions with offices in the county. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as our insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Ocean City Home Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 18 Table of Contents Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which currently regulates Ocean City Home Bank, will be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies, including Ocean City Home, will be regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well, and State Attorneys General will have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as Ocean City Home Bank, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in Ocean City Home Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 