D. Risk Factors Investing in the Common Shares involves a high degree of risk. Prospective and current investors should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties, together with all other information in this Annual Report, as well as the Corporation’s financial statements and related notes and MD&A. Any of the risk factors described below could adversely affect Acasti’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The market price of the Common Shares could decline significantly if one or more of these risks or uncertainties actually occur. The risks below are not the only ones Acasti faces. Additional risks that Acasti currently does not know about or that Acasti currently believes to be immaterial may also impair its business. Certain statements below are forward-looking information. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements”. 4 Risks Related to Product Development, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization The Corporation’s prospects currently depend entirely on the success of CaPre®, which is still in clinical development, and the Corporation may not be able to generate revenues from CaPre®. The Corporation has no prescription drug products that have been approved by the FDA, Health Canada or any similar regulatory authority. The Corporation’s only prescription drug candidate is CaPre®, for which the Corporation has not yet filed an NDA, and for which the Corporation must still initiate Phase III clinical trials, undergo further development activities and seek and receive regulatory approval prior to commercial launch, which the Corporation does not anticipate will occur until the Corporation’s fiscal year beginning in 2018 at the earliest. The Corporation does not have any other prescription drug candidates in development and, therefore, the Corporation’s business prospects currently depend entirely on the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of CaPre®, which may never occur. Most prescription drug candidates never reach the clinical development stage and even those that do reach clinical development have only a small chance of successfully completing clinical development and gaining regulatory approval. If the Corporation is unable to successfully commercialize CaPre® for the prevention and treatment of hypertriglyceridemia or severe hypertriglyceridemia, it may never generate meaningful revenues. In addition, if CaPre® reaches commercialization and there is low market demand for CaPre® or the market for CaPre® develops less rapidly than the Corporation anticipates, the Corporation may not have the ability to shift its resources to the development of alternative products. The Corporation may not be able to obtain required regulatory approvals for CaPre®. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, approval, sale, marketing, advertising and promotion, pricing, export, import and distribution of prescription drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries and those regulations differ from country to country. Acasti is not permitted to market CaPre® in the United States until it receives approval of an NDA from the FDA and similar restrictions apply in other countries. In the United States, the FDA generally requires the completion of preclinical testing and clinical trials of each drug to establish its safety and efficacy and extensive pharmaceutical development to ensure its quality before an NDA is approved. Regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions impose similar requirements. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. To date, the Corporation has not submitted an NDA for CaPre® to the FDA or comparable applications to other regulatory authorities. If the Corporation’s development efforts for CaPre®, including its planned Phase III clinical trials, are not successful for the prevention and treatment of hypertriglyceridemia or severe hypertriglyceridemia, and regulatory approval is not obtained in a timely fashion or at all, the Corporation’s business will be materially adversely affected. The receipt of required regulatory approvals for CaPre® is uncertain and subject to a number of risks, including the following: · the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities or IRBs may disagree with the design or implementation of the Corporation’s clinical trials; · the Corporation may not be able to provide acceptable evidence of the safety and efficacy of CaPre®; · the results of the Corporation’s clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for marketing approval; · the dosing of CaPre® in a particular clinical trial may not be at an optimal level; · patients in the Corporation’s clinical trials may suffer adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to CaPre®; · the data collected from the Corporation’s clinical trials may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA for CaPre® or to obtain regulatory approval for CaPre® in the United States or elsewhere; · the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which the Corporation contracts for clinical and commercial supplies; and · the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering the Corporation’s clinical data insufficient for approval. 5 The FDA and other regulators have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that the Corporation’s data is insufficient for approval and require additional clinical trials, or preclinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of CaPre®. In addition, the process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon, among other things, the type, complexity and novelty of the prescription drug candidates involved, the jurisdiction in which regulatory approval is sought and the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for a submitted product application may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. If regulatory approval is obtained in one jurisdiction, that does not necessarily mean that CaPre® will receive regulatory approval in all jurisdictions in which the Corporation may seek approval. The failure to obtain approval for CaPre® in one or more jurisdictions may negatively impact the Corporation’s ability to obtain approval in a different jurisdiction. A failure to obtain regulatory marketing approval for CaPre® in any indication would prevent the Corporation from commercializing CaPre®, and the Corporation’s ability to generate revenue would be materially impaired. The Corporation may be unable to develop alternative product candidates. To date, the Corporation has not commercialized any prescription drug candidates and does not have any other compounds in clinical trials, nonclinical testing, lead optimization or lead identification stages besides CaPre®. The Corporation cannot be certain that CaPre® will prove to be sufficiently effective and safe to meet applicable regulatory standards for any indication. If the Corporation fails to successfully commercialize CaPre® as a treatment for hypertriglyceridemia and severe hypertriglyceridemia, or any other indication, whether as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with other treatments, the Corporation would have to develop, acquire or license alternative product candidates or drug compounds to expand its product candidate pipeline beyond CaPre®. In such a scenario, the Corporation may not be able to identify, and acquire product candidates that prove to be successful products, or to acquire them on terms that are acceptable to the Corporation. Even if the Corporation receives regulatory approval for CaPre®, the Corporation still may not be able to successfully commercialize it and the revenue that the Corporation generates from its sales, if any, may be limited. The commercial success of CaPre® in any indication for which the Corporation obtains marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon its acceptance by the medical community, including physicians, patients and health insurance providers. The degree of market acceptance of CaPre® will depend on a number of factors, including: · demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy of prescription omega-3 products generally; · relative convenience, pill burden and ease of administration; · the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; · the willingness of physicians to prescribe CaPre® and of the target patient population to try new therapies; · efficacy of CaPre® compared to competing products, including omega-3 dietary supplements; · the introduction of any new products, including generic prescription omega-3 products, that may in the future become available to treat indications for which CaPre® may be approved; · new procedures or methods of treatment that may reduce the incidences of any of the indications for which CaPre® shows utility; · pricing; · the inclusion of prescription omega-3 products in applicable treatment guidelines; · the effectiveness of the Corporation’s or any future collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; · limitations or warnings contained in FDA-approved labeling; · the Corporation’s ability to obtain and maintain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement from government health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payors; and · the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of third-party coverage or reimbursement. 6 In addition, even if the Corporation obtains regulatory approvals, the timing or scope or conditions of any approvals may prohibit or reduce the Corporation’s ability to commercialize CaPre® successfully. For example, if the approval process takes too long, the Corporation may miss market opportunities and give other companies the ability to develop competing products or establish market dominance. Any regulatory approval the Corporation ultimately obtains may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render CaPre® not commercially viable. For example, regulatory authorities may not approve the price the Corporation intends to charge for CaPre®, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve CaPre® with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that indication. Any of the foregoing scenarios could have a material adverse effect on the commercial prospects for CaPre®. If CaPre® is approved, but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health insurance providers and patients, the Corporation may not generate sufficient revenue and the Corporation may not be able to ever achieve profitability. The Corporation faces competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and its operating results will suffer if the Corporation fails to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. The Corporation’s potential competitors both in the United States and globally include large, well-established pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical sales and marketing companies and specialized cardiovascular treatment companies. Many of these competitors have substantially greater name recognition, commercial infrastructures and financial, technical and personnel resources than the Corporation. These companies include GlaxoSmithKline plc, which currently markets Lovaza, a prescription omega-3 for patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia, and Abbott Laboratories, which currently markets Tricor and Trilipix (both fibrates) and Niaspan (niacin) for treatment of severe hypertriglyceridemia and high triglycerides, Amarin Corporation, which currently markets Vascepa, an ethyl-ester form of EPA, for the treatment of patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia and AstraZeneca which announced on May 6, 2014 that the FDA had approved EPANOVA (omega-3-carboxylic acids) as an adjunct to diet to reduce triglyceride levels in adults with severe hypertriglyceridaemia. In addition, Acasti is aware of other pharmaceutical companies (e.g Matinas Biopharma) that are developing products that, if approved, would compete with CaPre®. CaPre® may also compete with omega-3 dietary supplements that are available without a prescription. These established competitors and others may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make CaPre® obsolete or uneconomical. CaPre® may need to demonstrate compelling comparative advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety to be commercially successful. Other competitive factors, including generic drug competition, could force the Corporation to lower prices or could result in reduced sales. In addition, new products developed by others could emerge as competitors to CaPre®. If the Corporation is not able to compete effectively against its current and future competitors, its business will not grow and its financial condition and operations will suffer. CaPre®, if approved, would be subject to competition from products for which no prescription is required. If approved by applicable regulatory authorities, CaPre® will be a prescription-only omega-3. Mixtures of omega-3 fatty acids are naturally occurring substances in various foods, including fatty fish. Omega-3 fatty acids are also marketed by others as dietary supplements. Dietary supplements may generally be marketed without a lengthy FDA premarket review and approval process and are not subject to prescription. However, unlike prescription drug products, manufacturers of dietary supplements may not make therapeutic claims for their products; dietary supplements may be marketed with claims describing how the product affects the structure or function of the body without premarket approval, but may not expressly or implicitly represent that the dietary supplement will diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat, or prevent disease. The Corporation believes the pharmaceutical-grade purity of CaPre® has a superior therapeutic profile to naturally occurring omega-3 fatty acids and the omega-3 in commercially available dietary supplements. However, the Corporation cannot be certain that physicians or consumers will view CaPre® as superior. To the extent the price of CaPre® is significantly higher than the prices of commercially available omega-3 fatty acids marketed by other companies as dietary supplements, physicians may recommend these commercial alternatives instead of CaPre® or patients may elect on their own to take commercially available non-prescription omega-3 fatty acids. Either of these outcomes may adversely impact the Corporation’s results of operations by limiting how the Corporation prices CaPre® and limiting the revenue the Corporation receives from the sale of CaPre®. Even if the Corporation obtains marketing approval for CaPre®, the Corporation will be subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Even if the Corporation obtains U.S. regulatory approval for CaPre® for the prevention and treatment of hypertriglyceridemia or severe hypertriglyceridemia, which would not occur until the Corporation successfully completes Phase III clinical trials, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on its indicated uses or marketing or the conditions of approval, or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly and time-consuming post-approval studies, including Phase IV clinical trials or clinical outcome studies, and post-market surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of CaPre®. Even if the Corporation secures U.S. regulatory approval, the Corporation would continue to be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements related to CaPre® governing manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting of adverse events and other post-market information. These requirements include registration with the FDA, as well as continued compliance with cGCPs, for any clinical trials that the Corporation conducts post-approval. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP, requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents. 7 If the Corporation or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, or the Corporation or its manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the Corporation may be subject to the following administrative or judicial sanctions: · restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls; · issuance of warning letters or untitled letters; · clinical holds; · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval; · suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; · refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by the Corporation, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; · suspension or imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or · product seizure or detention or refusal to permit the import or export of product. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit the Corporation’s ability to commercialize CaPre® and generate revenue. Adverse regulatory action, whether pre- or post-approval, can also potentially lead to product liability claims and increase the Corporation’s product liability exposure. See “ Government Regulation”. Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for the Corporation to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize CaPre® and affect the prices the Corporation may obtain. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval for CaPre®, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect the Corporation’s ability to profitably sell CaPre®. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. The Corporation does not know whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of CaPre®, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA’s approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject the Corporation to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. In the United States, the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, this legislation authorized Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to use formularies where they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, the Corporation expects that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that the Corporation receives for CaPre® and could seriously harm its business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private health insurance companies often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private health insurance companies. 8 In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 or, collectively, the Health Care Reform Law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the Health Care Reform Law revised the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Further, the new law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may possibly require the Corporation to modify its business practices with healthcare practitioners. Despite initiatives to invalidate the Health Care Reform Law, the U.S. Supreme Court has upheld certain key aspects of the legislation, including the requirement that all individuals maintain health insurance coverage or pay a penalty, referred to as the individual mandate. Although there are legal challenges to the Health Care Reform Law in lower courts on other grounds, at this time it appears the implementation of the Health Care Reform Law will continue. The Corporation will not know the full effects of the Health Care Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Health Care Reform Law, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase the Corporation’s regulatory burdens and operating costs. The Corporation expects that additional federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, and in turn could significantly reduce the projected value of certain development projects and reduce the Corporation’s ability to achieve profitability. If the Corporation markets CaPre® in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws, or if the Corporation violates government price reporting laws, the Corporation may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws have been applied in recent years to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry. These laws include the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, U.S. False Claims Act and similar state laws. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of the Corporation’s business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. The U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted broadly to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, dispensers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are several statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending drugs reimbursable under federal healthcare programs may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. The Corporation’s practices may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the Health Care Reform Law, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal health care fraud statutes; a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the U.S. False Claims Act. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Over the past few years, a number of pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as: allegedly providing free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants and other monetary benefits to prescribers; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered, off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program to reduce liability for Medicaid rebates. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute and the U.S. False Claims Act, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Settlements of government litigation may include Corporate Integrity Agreements with commitments for monitoring, training, and reporting designed to prevent future violations. 9 Third-party coverage and reimbursement and health care cost containment initiatives and treatment guidelines may constrain the Corporation’s future revenues. The Corporation’s ability to successfully market CaPre® will depend in part on the level of reimbursement that government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations provide for the cost of the Corporation’s products and related treatments. Countries in which CaPre® may in the future be sold through reimbursement schemes under national health insurance programs frequently require that manufacturers and sellers of pharmaceutical products obtain governmental approval of initial prices and any subsequent price increases. In certain countries, including the United States, government-funded and private medical care plans can exert significant indirect pressure on prices. The Corporation may not be able to sell CaPre® profitably if its prices are not approved or coverage and reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope. Increasingly, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs in ways that are likely to impact the Corporation’s development of products including: · not approving the prices charged for health care products; · limiting both coverage and the amount of reimbursement for new therapeutic products; · denying or limiting coverage for products that are approved by the regulatory agencies but are considered to be experimental or investigational by third-party payors; and · refusing to provide coverage when an approved product is used in a way that has not received regulatory marketing approval. Termination or suspension of, or delays in the commencement or completion of, any necessary future studies of CaPre® for any indications could occur. The commencement and completion of clinical and non-clinical studies for CaPre® can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to: · the FDA, Health Canada or similar regulatory authorities not granting permission to proceed and placing the clinical study on hold; · subjects failing to enroll or remain in the Corporation’s trials at the rate the Corporation expects; · a facility manufacturing CaPre® being ordered by the FDA or other government or regulatory authorities to temporarily or permanently shut down due to violations of cGMP requirements or other applicable requirements, or cross-contaminations of product candidates in the manufacturing process; · any changes to the Corporation’s manufacturing process that may be necessary or desired; · subjects choosing an alternative treatment for the indications for which the Corporation is developing CaPre®, or participating in competing clinical studies; · subjects experiencing severe or unexpected drug-related adverse effects; · reports from clinical testing on similar technologies and products raising safety and/or efficacy concerns; · third-party clinical investigators losing their license or permits necessary to perform the Corporation’s clinical trials, not performing the Corporation’s clinical trials on their anticipated schedule or employing methods not consistent with the clinical trial protocol, cGMP requirements, or other third parties not performing data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; · inspections of clinical study sites by the FDA, Health Canada or similar regulatory authorities or IRBs finding regulatory violations that require the Corporation to undertake corrective action, result in suspension or termination of one or more sites or the imposition of a clinical hold on the entire study, or that prohibit the Corporation from using some or all of the data in support of its marketing applications; · third-party contractors becoming debarred or suspended or otherwise penalized by the FDA, Health Canada or other government or regulatory authorities for violations of regulatory requirements, in which case the Corporation may need to find a substitute contractor, and the Corporation may not be able to use some or any of the data produced by such contractors in support of its marketing applications; 10 · one or more IRBs refusing to approve, suspending or terminating the study at an investigational site, precluding enrollment of additional subjects, or withdrawing its approval of the trial; reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CRO and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; · deviations of the clinical sites from trial protocols or dropping out of a trial; · the addition of new clinical trial sites; and · the inability of the CRO to execute any clinical trials for any reason. Product development costs for CaPre® will increase if the Corporation has delays in testing or approval or if the Corporation needs to perform more or larger clinical studies than planned. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and policies may occur and the Corporation may need to amend study protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require the Corporation to resubmit its study protocols to the FDA, Health Canada or similar regulatory authorities or IRBs for re-examination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of that study. Any delays in completing the Corporation’s clinical trials will increase its costs, slow down its development and approval process and jeopardize its ability to commence sales of CaPre® and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and prospects. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. For example, the positive preliminary results generated to date in the Corporation’s TRIFECTA Phase II clinical trial for CaPre® do not ensure that the final Phase II results or later clinical trials will produce similar results. The Corporation cannot assure you that the FDA will view the results as the Corporation does or that any future trials of CaPre® for other indications will achieve positive results. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Any future clinical trial results for CaPre® may not be successful. A number of factors could contribute to a lack of favorable safety and efficacy results for CaPre® for other indications. For example, such trials could result in increased variability due to varying site characteristics, such as local standards of care, differences in evaluation period, and due to varying patient characteristics including demographic factors and health status. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy for the FDA to approve CaPre® for the prevention and treatment of hypertriglyceridemia and severe hypertriglyceridemia, or any other indication that the Corporation may consider in any additional NDA submissions for CaPre®. In addition, clinical trials and nonclinical studies performed by research organizations and other independent third parties may yield negative results regarding the effect of omega-3 fatty acids on cardiometabolic disorders and specifically hypertriglyceridemia and severe hypertriglyceridemia. For example, in May 2013, the New England Journal of Medicine published results on a study in which it concluded that a daily treatment of omega-3 fatty acids did not reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. The clinical trial consisted of the enrollment of 12,513 patients who were followed by a network of 860 general practitioners in Italy. Patients were randomly assigned to omega-3 fatty acids (1g daily) or placebo. Researchers reported that omega-3 fatty acid supplements did not reduce death from heart disease or heart attacks or strokes in the group and concluded that the intake of omega-3 fatty acids does not have any specific advantage in a population that is considered at high risk of cardiovascular disease. The New England Journal of Medicine study along with other future studies yielding similar results could have a negative impact on consumer perception and market acceptance of the efficacy of omega-3 fatty acids on cardiometabolic disorders, specifically the beneficial effect on triglyceride and cholesterol levels, and such impact may a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business. The Corporation relies on third parties to conduct its clinical trials for CaPre®. The Corporation has entered into agreements with a CRO to provide monitors for and to manage data for its ongoing clinical trials. The Corporation relies heavily on these parties for execution of clinical studies for CaPre® and controls only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, the Corporation is responsible for ensuring that each of its studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and the Corporation’s reliance on CROs would not relieve it of its regulatory responsibilities. The Corporation and its CROs are required to comply with cGCPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, Health Canada and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for any products in clinical development. The FDA enforces these cGCP regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If the Corporation or its CROs fail to comply with applicable cGCPs, the clinical data generated in the Corporation’s clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA, Health Canada or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require the Corporation to perform additional clinical trials before approving the Corporation’s marketing applications. The Corporation cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of the Corporation’s clinical trials comply with cGCPs. In addition, the Corporation’s clinical trials must be conducted with products produced under cGMP regulations and require a large number of test subjects. The Corporation’s failure or the failure of its CROs to comply with these regulations may require the Corporation to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process and could also subject the Corporation to enforcement action up to and including civil and criminal penalties. 11 If any of the Corporation’s relationships with these third-party CROs terminate, the Corporation may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to the Corporation’s clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, any such clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and the Corporation may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize CaPre®. The Corporation’s supply of krill oil for commercial supply and clinical trials is dependent upon relationships with Neptune and other third party manufacturers and key suppliers The Corporation depends on krill oil sourced from third parties for the production of ONEMIA™ and CaPre®. The Corporation’s reliance on third party suppliers of krill oil involves several risks, including potential fluctuations in supply and reduced control over production costs, delivery schedules and the quality of available krill oil. Until November 2012, Acasti purchased all of its supply of krill oil from its parent company, Neptune. Acasti is currently acquiring its krill oil from Neptune and through purchases in the open market in order to meet production requirements for ONEMIA™, and is also relying on a third party to provide manufacturing services for the production of CaPre® in accordance with cGMP regulations imposed by the FDA. Furthermore, the Corporation will have to source additional quantities of krill oil for the continued production of ONEMIA™ and its planned Phase III clinical trial for CaPre®, and, if regulatory approval is obtained, larger quantities for the commercialization and distribution of CaPre® than the Corporation is currently able to source. Acasti may not be able to acquire krill oil in sufficient quantities from Neptune, in which case, Acasti may need to seek alternative suppliers of krill oil and may be required to pay higher prices for krill oil (in comparison to what it currently pays to Neptune). Further, any alternative supply of krill oil may not be of comparable quality to that previously provided by Neptune which may impact the efficacy, or the markets’ perception of the efficacy, of ONEMIA™ and CaPre®. Disruption to the Corporation’s required quantities and quality of krill oil supplies would have a material adverse effect on Acasti’s business and results of operations. The Corporation relies on third parties for the manufacturing, production and supply of CaPre® and ONEMIA® and may be adversely affected if those third parties are unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. The production of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Acasti does not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of CaPre® and ONEMIA®, nor does it have plans to develop its own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Corporation needs to rely on one or more third party manufacturers to produce and supply its required drug product for its nonclinical research and clinical trials for CaPre® and its commercial sales of ONEMIA®. The Corporation’s reliance on third-parties to produce CaPre® and ONEMIA® exposes Acasti to a number of risks. For example, Acasti may be subject to delays in or suspension of the production of CaPre® and ONEMIA® if a third-party manufacturer: · becomes unavailable for any reason, including as a result of the failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations; · experiences manufacturing problems or other operational failures, such as equipment failures or unplanned facility shutdowns required to comply with cGMP or damage from any event, including fire, flood, earthquake, business restructuring or insolvency; or · fails or refuses to perform its contractual obligations under its agreement with the Corporation, such as failing or refusing to deliver the quantities requested on a timely basis. If the Corporation’s third-party manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations, Acasti may be subject to sanctions, including fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawals of previously granted regulatory approvals, and criminal prosecution. Any of these penalties could delay the initiation of the Corporation’s planned Phase III clinical trial for CaPre®, which could have a material adverse effect on Acasti’s business prospects and result of operations. 12 The Corporation may be subject to Product Liability Claims and Recalls of its Products. Drug development involves the testing of experimental drugs on human subjects. These studies subject the Corporation to liability risks relating to personal injury or, in extreme cases, death to participants as a result of an unexpected adverse reaction to the tested drug. Furthermore, the administration of these experimental drugs to humans after marketing clearance is obtained can result in product liability claims which may result from claims made directly by consumers or by regulatory agencies, pharmaceutical companies or others. There can be no assurance that insurance will be adequate or will continue to be available on terms acceptable to the Corporation. Insurance will generally not protect the Corporation against negligence. The obligation to pay any product liability claim in excess of whatever insurance the Corporation is able to acquire, or the recall of any of its products, could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and future prospects of the Corporation. Risks Relating to the Corporation’s Intellectual Property Rights It is difficult and costly to protect Acasti’s intellectual property rights, and Acasti cannot ensure the protection of these rights. The Corporation's activities depend, in part, on its ability to (i) obtain and maintain patents, trade secret protection and operate without infringing the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties, (ii) successfully defend these patents (including patents owned by or licensed to the Corporation) against third-party challenges, and (iii) successfully enforce these patents against third party competitors. There is no assurance that the Corporation will be granted such patents and/or proprietary technology or that such granted patents and/or proprietary technology will not be circumvented through the adoption of a competitive, though non-infringing, process or product. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws may diminish the value of the Corporation’s intellectual property. Accordingly, the Corporation cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowable or enforceable in its patents (including patents owned by or licensed to the Corporation). Failure to protect the Corporation's existing and future intellectual property rights could seriously harm its business and prospects and may result in the loss of its ability to exclude others from using the Corporation's technology or its own right to use the technologies. If the Corporation does not adequately ensure the right to use certain technologies, it may have to pay others for the right to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. The Corporation’s patents do not guarantee the right to use the technologies if other parties own intellectual property rights that are necessary in order to use such technologies. The Corporation's and Neptune’s patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. In any case, there can be no assurance that: · any rights under Canadian, U.S. or foreign patents owned by the Corporation or other patents that Neptune and other third parties license to the Corporation will not be curtailed; · the Corporation was the first inventor of inventions covered by its issued patents or pending applications or that the Corporation was the first to file patent applications for such inventions; · the Corporation’s pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage sought by the Corporation, or be issued at all; · the Corporation’s competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Corporation's technologies; · any of the Corporation's trade secrets will not be learned independently by its competitors; or · the steps the Corporation takes to protect its intellectual property will be adequate. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not sought in certain foreign countries. 13 The Corporation also seeks to protect its proprietary intellectual property, including intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors' rights agreements with its strategic partners and employees. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Corporation will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. The cost of enforcing the Corporation's patent rights or defending rights against infringement charges by other patent holders may be significant and could limit operations. The Corporation intends to vigorously enforce and protect its intellectual property. The degree of future protection for the Corporation’s proprietary rights is uncertain, because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect the Corporation’s rights, permit it to gain or keep its competitive advantage, or provide it with any competitive advantage at all. The Corporation cannot be certain that any patent application owned by a third party will not have priority over patent applications filed or in-licensed by the Corporation, or that the Corporation or its licensor will not be involved in interference, opposition or invalidity proceedings before U.S., Canadian or foreign patent offices. The Corporation depends on Neptune to protect a significant portion of its proprietary rights that derive from the Corporation’s license agreement with Neptune. Neptune may be primarily or wholly responsible for the maintenance of patents and prosecution of the licensed patent applications relating to important areas of the Corporation’s business. If Neptune fails to adequately maintain, prosecute or protect these patents or patent applications, the Corporation may have the right to take further action on its own to protect its technology. However, the Corporation may not be successful or have adequate resources to do so. Any failure by Neptune or by the Corporation to protect its intellectual property rights could significantly harm the Corporation’s business and prospects. The Corporation also relies on trade secrets to protect its technology, especially in cases when the Corporation believes patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. If the Corporation cannot maintain the confidentiality of its proprietary and licensed technology and other confidential information, the Corporation’s ability and that of its licensor to receive patent protection and its ability to protect valuable information owned or licensed by the Corporation may be imperiled. Enforcing a claim that a third-party entity illegally obtained and is using any of the Corporation’s trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, the Corporation’s competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If the Corporation fails to obtain or maintain patent protection or trade secret protection for CaPre®, ONEMIA® or the Corporation’s technologies, third parties could use the Corporation’s proprietary information, which could impair its ability to compete in the market and adversely affect its ability to generate future revenues and attain profitability. CaPre® is covered by patents that are not owned by the Corporation but are instead licensed to the Corporation by Neptune. In addition to its proprietary patent applications, the Corporation has an exclusive worldwide license under certain patents and know-how to develop and commercialize CaPre® within a specified field of use pursuant to a license agreement with Neptune. The limitation on the Corporation’s field of use may prevent it from developing and commercializing CaPre® in other fields. Additionally, the Corporation’s license is subject to termination for breach of its terms, and therefore its rights may only be available to it for as long as Neptune agrees that the Corporation’s development and commercialization activities are sufficient to meet the terms of the license. If this license is terminated for any reason and the Corporation is not able to negotiate another agreement with Neptune for use of its patents and know-how, the Corporation will not be able to manufacture and market CaPre®, which would have a material adverse effect on its business and financial condition. See “Acasti’s Business – Intellectual Property”. CaPre® may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase the Corporation’s costs and delay or prevent the Corporation’s development and commercialization efforts. The Corporation’s success depends in part on avoiding infringement of the proprietary technologies of others. The pharmaceutical industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Identification of third party patent rights that may be relevant to the Corporation’s proprietary or licensed technology is difficult because patent searching is imperfect due to differences in terminology among patents, incomplete databases and the difficulty in assessing the meaning of patent claims. Additionally, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy until the application is published, the Corporation may be unaware of third-party patents that may be infringed by the development and commercialization of CaPre® or any other future prescription drug candidate. There may be certain issued patents and patent applications claiming subject matter that the Corporation’s licensor or the Corporation may be required to license in order to research, develop or commercialize CaPre®, and the Corporation cannot be certain whether such patents and patent applications would be available to license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and may: · result in costly litigation; · divert the time and attention of the Corporation’s technical personnel and management; 14 · cause product development or commercialization delays, including delays in clinical trials for CaPre®; · prevent the Corporation from commercializing CaPre® until the asserted patent expires or is held finally invalid or not infringed in a court of law; · require the Corporation to cease or modify its use of the technology and/or develop non-infringing technology; or · require the Corporation to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Others may hold proprietary rights that could prevent CaPre® from being marketed. Any patent-related legal action against the Corporation claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to CaPre® or the Corporation’s processes could subject the Corporation to potential liability for damages and require the Corporation to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market CaPre® or any other future prescription drug candidates. The Corporation cannot predict whether the Corporation would prevail in any such actions or that any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the Corporation cannot be sure that it could redesign CaPre® or any other future product candidates or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent the Corporation from developing and commercializing CaPre® or any other future product candidate, which could harm the Corporation’s business, financial condition and operating results. A number of companies, including several major pharmaceutical companies, have conducted research on pharmaceutical uses of omega-3 fatty acids, which has resulted in the filing of many patent applications related to this research. The Corporation is aware of third-party U.S., Canadian or other foreign patents that contain broad claims related to methods of using these general types of compounds, which may be construed to include potential uses of CaPre® or any future product candidates. If the Corporation were to challenge the validity of these or any other issued U.S, Canadian or other foreign patents in court, the Corporation would need to overcome a statutory presumption of validity that attaches to every U.S. and Canadian patent. This means that, in order to prevail, the Corporation would have to present clear and convincing evidence as to the invalidity of the other party’s patent’s claims. If the Corporation were to challenge the validity of any issued U.S. patent in an administrative trial before the Patent Trial and Appeal Board in the USPTO, the Corporation would have to prove that the claims are unpatentable by a preponderance of the evidence. There is no assurance that a jury and/or court would find in the Corporation’s favor on questions of infringement, validity or enforceability. General Risks Related to the Corporation The Corporation may never become profitable or be able to sustain profitability. The Corporation is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. The likelihood of success of the Corporation’s business plan must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with developing and expanding early-stage businesses and the regulatory and competitive environment in which the Corporation operates. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking, involves a substantial degree of risk and is a capital-intensive business. Therefore, the Corporation expects to incur expenses without any meaningful corresponding revenues unless and until it is able to obtain regulatory approval and subsequently sell CaPre® in significant quantities. The Corporation has been engaged in developing CaPre® since 2008. To date, the Corporation has not generated any revenue from CaPre®, and it may never be able to obtain regulatory approval for the marketing of CaPre® in any indication. Further, even if the Corporation is able to commercialize CaPre® or any other product candidate, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will generate significant revenues or ever achieve profitability. The Corporation’s net loss for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 was approximately $1.7 million. As of February 28, 2015, the Corporation had an accumulated deficit of approximately $33.3 million. If the Corporation obtains FDA approval, it expects that its expenses will increase as it prepares for the commercial launch of CaPre®. The Corporation also expects that its research and development expenses will continue to increase in the event it pursues FDA approval for CaPre® for other indications. As a result, the Corporation expects to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses may be increasing. The Corporation is uncertain about when or if it will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If the Corporation achieves profitability in the future, it may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Failure to become and remain profitable would impair the Corporation’s ability to sustain operations and adversely affect the price of the Common Shares and its ability to raise capital. The Corporation may not be able to maintain its operations and research and development without additional funding. The Corporation will require substantial additional funds to conduct further research and development, scheduled clinical testing, regulatory approvals and the commercialization of CaPre®. In addition to completing nonclinical and clinical trials, the Corporations expects that additional time and capital will be required to complete the filing of a NDA to obtain FDA approval for CaPre® in the United States and to complete marketing and other pre-commercialization activities. To date, the Corporation has financed its operations through public offering and private placement of common shares, proceeds from exercises of warrants, rights and options and research tax credits. The Corporation’s cash and short term investments were approximately $18.3 million as of February 28, 2015. Depending on the status of regulatory approval or, if approved, commercialization of CaPre®, the Corporation will most likely require additional capital to fund its operating needs. To achieve the objectives of its business plan, the Corporation plans to establish strategic alliances, raise the necessary capital and make sales. The Corporation may also seek additional funding for these purposes through public or private equity or debt financing, joint venture arrangements, and collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies, and/or from other sources. 15 The Corporation has incurred operating losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. If the Corporation is unable to secure sufficient capital to fund its operations, it may be forced to enter into strategic collaborations that could require the Corporation to share commercial rights to CaPre® with third parties in ways that the Corporation currently does not intend or on terms that may not be favorable to the Corporation. There can be no assurance that any additional funding from any other third party will be available on acceptable terms or at all to enable the Corporation to continue and complete the research and development of CaPre®. The failure to obtain additional financing on favourable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on Acasti’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to establish the Corporation’s sales and marketing infrastructure, the Corporation will need to expand the size of its organization, and the Corporation may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of February 28, 2015, the Corporation had seven employees in Canada, six of whom have biology, chemistry, biochemistry or microbiology credentials and one administrative staff with a pharmaceutical industry background. As the Corporation’s development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, the Corporation expects that it will need to expand the size of its employee base for managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees. In addition, the Corporation’s management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from the Corporation’s day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. The Corporation’s future financial performance and its ability to commercialize CaPre® and any other future product candidates and its ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on the Corporation’s ability to effectively manage any future growth. If the Corporation is not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, the Corporation may not be able to successfully implement its business strategy. The Corporation’s ability to compete in the highly competitive pharmaceuticals industry depends in large part upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. Competition for skilled personnel in the Corporation’s market is intense and competition for experienced scientists may limit the Corporation’s ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The Corporation is highly dependent on its management, scientific and medical personnel. The Corporation’s management team has substantial knowledge in many different aspects of drug development and commercialization. Despite the Corporation’s efforts to retain valuable employees, members of its management, scientific and medical teams may terminate their employment with the Corporation on short notice or, potentially, without any notice at all. The loss of the services of any of the Corporation’s executive officers or other key employees could potentially harm its business, operating results or financial condition. The Corporation’s success may also depend on its ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level, and senior managers and scientific personnel. Other pharmaceutical companies with which the Corporation competes for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles, and a longer history in the industry than the Corporation does. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than what the Corporation has to offer. If the Corporation is unable to continue to attract and retain high-quality personnel, the rate and success at which the Corporation can develop and commercialize product candidates would be limited. If product liability lawsuits are brought against the Corporation, it may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to cease the sale, marketing and distribution of its products. The Corporation faces a potential risk of product liability as a result of its sales, marketing and distribution activities relating to ONEMIA® and any future commercialization of CaPre® or any other future product. For example, the Corporation may be sued if any product it develops allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under U.S. state or Canadian provincial or other foreign consumer protection legislation. If the Corporation cannot successfully defend itself against product liability claims, it may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease the sale, marketing and distribution of its products. Even successful defense against product liability claims would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: 16 · decreased demand for ONEMIA®, CaPre® or any future products that the Corporation may develop; · injury to the Corporation’s reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial participants; · costs to defend the related litigation; · a diversion of management’s time and the Corporation’s resources; · substantial monetary awards to consumers, trial participants or patients; · product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions; · loss of revenue; · the inability to commercialize CaPre®; · the inability to continue the sale, marketing and distribution of ONEMIA®; and · a decline in the price of the Common Shares. If the Corporation is unable to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of products it develops could be hindered or prevented. The Corporation currently carries product liability insurance in the amount of $5.0 million in the aggregate. In addition, the Corporation currently carries liability insurance covering its clinical trials in the amount of $5.0 million in the aggregate. Although the Corporation maintains such insurance, any claim that may be brought against the Corporation could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by the Corporation’s insurance or that is in excess of the limits of the Corporation’s insurance coverage. The Corporation’s insurance policies also have various exclusions, and the Corporation may be subject to a product liability claim for which it has no coverage. In the event of a successful product liability claim against it, the Corporation may have to pay from its own resources any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed its coverage limitations or that is not covered by the Corporation’s insurance, and the Corporation may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. The Corporation may acquire businesses or products or form strategic alliances in the future and the Corporation may not realize the benefits of such acquisitions. The Corporation may acquire additional businesses or products, form strategic alliances or create joint ventures with third parties that the Corporation believes will complement or augment its existing business. If the Corporation acquires businesses with promising markets or technologies, it may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring such businesses if the Corporation is unable to successfully integrate them with its existing operations and company culture. The Corporation may encounter numerous difficulties in developing, manufacturing and marketing any new products resulting from a strategic alliance or acquisition that delay or prevent the Corporation from realizing their expected benefits. The Corporation may not achieve its publicly announced milestones on time. From time to time, the Corporation publicly announces the timing of certain events it expects to occur, such as the anticipated timing of results from its clinical trials. These statements are forward-looking and are based on the best estimate of management at the time relating to the occurrence of such events. However, the actual timing of such events may differ from what has been publicly disclosed. The timing of events such as completion of a clinical trial, discovery of a new product candidate, filing of an application to obtain regulatory approval, beginning of commercialization of certain products, or announcement of additional clinical trials for a product candidate may ultimately vary from what is publicly disclosed. For example, the Corporation cannot provide assurances that the TRIFECTA Phase II clinical trial and the PK trial in Canada will be completed on schedule or at all, that it will conduct Phase III clinical trial for CaPre®, that it will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, or that it will be able to adhere to plans for the scale-up of manufacturing and launch of any of its products. These variations in timing may occur as a result of different events, including the nature of the results obtained during a clinical trial or during a research phase, problems with a supplier or a distribution partner or any other event having the effect of delaying the publicly announced timeline. The Corporation undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. Any variation in the timing of previously announced milestones could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business plan, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of the Common Shares. 17 Neptune could lose its control of Acasti Neptune currently owns approximately 48% of Acasti’s outstanding common shares, seven members of Neptune’s Board of Directors are also members of Acasti’s Board of Directors, and Neptune’s Chief Financial Officer is also the interim Chief Executive Officer of Acasti. As a result, Neptune exercises control over Acasti as of February 28, 2015. However, if all outstanding warrants, call options and restrictive share units of Acasti were to be exercised, Neptune’s ownership interest in Acasti’s common shares would fall to approximately 35%. If Neptune’s ownership of Acasti’s common shares declines, Neptune may lose its ability to elect members of its Board of Directors to Acasti’s Board of Directors and to otherwise exercise control over Acasti. A loss of Neptune’s control over Acasti, could, among other things result in: · investors and analysts placing a different, and possibly lower, value on the Common Shares to reflect a lower degree of exposure by Neptune to Acasti’s krill oil-based pharmaceutical business; · Acasti making decisions in connection with the development and commercialization of Acasti’s products with less or no involvement and approval from Neptune; and · a different presentation of Neptune’s financial statements as it relates to Acasti, including assets and any future revenues generated by Acasti would not be directly included in Neptune’s consolidated financial statements. Neptune does not expect to provide material capital to Acasti in the short term and therefore, its ownership interest in Acasti may continue to decline. If we fail to maintain the requirements for continued listing on NASDAQ, our common shares could be delisted from trading on NASDAQ, which would materially adversely affect the liquidity of our common shares, the price of our common shares, and our ability to raise additional capital. Failure to meet the applicable continued listing requirements of NASDAQ could result in our common shares being delisted from NASDAQ. On November 7, 2014, we received a first notification from NASDAQ informing us that we failed to maintain a minimum closing bid price on NASDAQ of at least US$1.00 per share for our common shares for 30 consecutive business days, as we are required to do under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). We were given 180 days (the “Initial Compliance Period”), or until May 6, 2015, to regain compliance by having the bid price of our common shares close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days prior to the end of the Initial Compliance Period. On May 11, 2015, NASDAQ granted Acasti an additional 180-day period (the “Second Compliance Period”), or until November 2, 2015, to regain compliance. As part of the conditions to receive its extension, Acasti provided NASDAQ with written notice of its intention to cure the minimum bid price deficiency during the Second Compliance Period by effecting a share consolidation, if necessary. While we may explore various actions to meet the Minimum Bid Price Rule there is no guarantee that any such action will be successful in bringing us into, or maintaining, compliance. If we fail to satisfy Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements, our common shares could be delisted from NASDAQ, in which case we may transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market, which generally has lower financial requirements for initial listing or, if we fail to meet its listing requirements, the over‐the‐counter bulletin board. However, there can be no assurance that our common shares will be eligible for trading on any such alternative exchanges or markets in the United States. If we are delisted from NASDAQ it would materially reduce the liquidity of our common shares, lower the price of our common shares, and impair our ability to raise financing. In order to comply with NASDAQ’s Minimum Bid Price Rule we may, subject to regulatory approvals (including from the TSXV), implement a share consolidation, which could require shareholder approval and adversely affect our common share price and its liquidity. Subject to regulatory approvals (including from the TSXV), we may implement a share consolidation in order to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. The exact number of shares of the Corporation to be consolidated, if at all required or necessary, would be determined by our board of directors and may be subject to shareholder approval. While such share consolidation could bring us back into compliance with the listing requirements of NASDAQ, there can be no assurance that any increase in the market price of our common shares resulting from a share consolidation, if implemented, would be sustainable. There are numerous factors and contingencies that would affect such price, including the market conditions for our common shares at the time, our reported results of operations in future periods and general economic, geopolitical, stock market and industry conditions. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of our common shares after a share consolidation may be lower than the total market capitalization before such share consolidation and, in the future, the market price of our common shares might not exceed or remain higher than the market price prior to such share consolidation. There can be no assurance that a share consolidation would result in a per share market price that attracts institutional investors or investment funds, or that such price would satisfy the investing guidelines of institutional investors or investment funds. As a result, the trading liquidity of our common shares might not improve as a result of a share consolidation. Furthermore, the liquidity of our common shares could be adversely affected by the reduced number of our common shares that would be outstanding after the share consolidation. 18 Risks Related to the Corporation’s Status as a Foreign Private Issuer/Emerging Growth Company As a foreign private issuer, the Corporation is subject to different U.S. securities laws and regulations than a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to the Corporation’s U.S. shareholders. The Corporation is a foreign private issuer under applicable U.S. federal securities laws, and therefore, it is not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). As a result, the Corporation does not file the same reports that a U.S. domestic issuer would file with the SEC, although the Corporation is required to file with or furnish to the SEC the continuous disclosure documents that the Corporation is required to file in Canada under Canadian securities laws. In addition, the Corporation’s officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Therefore, the Corporation’s shareholders may not know on as timely a basis when the Corporation’s officers, directors and principal shareholders purchase or sell common shares as the reporting periods under the corresponding Canadian insider reporting requirements are longer. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, the Corporation is exempt from the proxy rules under the Exchange Act. The Corporation may lose its foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses to the Corporation. The Corporation may in the future lose its foreign private issuer status if a majority of the Common Shares are held in the United States and it fails to meet the additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs to the Corporation under U.S. federal securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer would be significantly more than the costs the Corporation incurs as a Canadian foreign private issuer. If the Corporation is not a foreign private issuer, it would not be eligible to use foreign issuer forms and would be required to file periodic and current reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. In addition, the Corporation may lose the ability to rely upon exemptions from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers. If the Corporation loses foreign private issuer status, compliance with more enhanced disclosure requirements and other U.S. securities laws may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult and time-consuming, increase demand on our systems and resources and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, the Corporation does not satisfy the eligibility criteria to use MJDS to conduct public securities offerings and to meet its periodic disclosure requirements in the United States. As a result, if the Company conducts future public securities offerings in the United States, it may have do so without the use of MJDS, which could involve additional time and cost. As an “emerging growth company”, Acasti is exempt from the requirement to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Acasti is an “emerging growth company”, as defined in the U.S. Jumpstart Our Business Start-ups Act, and intends to avail itself of the exemption provided to emerging growth companies from the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Therefore, Acasti’s internal controls over financial reporting will not receive the level of review provided by the process relating to the auditor attestation included in annual reports of issuers that are not using an exemption. In addition, Acasti cannot predict if investors will find the Common Shares less attractive because it relies on this exemption. If some investors find the Common Shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for the Common Shares and trading price for the Common Shares may be negatively affected. U.S. investors may be unable to enforce certain judgments. The Corporation is a company existing under the Business Corporations Act (Québec). The majority of the Corporation’s directors and officers are residents of Canada, and substantially all of the Corporation’s assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service within the United States upon the Corporation or upon its directors and officers. Execution by U.S. courts of any judgment obtained against the Corporation or any of its directors or officers in U.S. courts may be limited to the assets of such companies or such persons, as the case may be, located in the United States. It may also be difficult for holders of securities who reside in the United States to realize in the United States upon judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability and the civil liability of the Corporation’s directors and executive officers under the U.S. federal securities laws. The Corporation has been advised that a judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon civil liability under U.S. federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States, would likely be enforceable in Canada if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained has a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that would be recognized by a Canadian court for the same purposes. However, there may be doubt as to the enforceability in Canada against these non-U.S. entities or their controlling persons, directors and officers who are not residents of the United States, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon U.S. federal or state securities laws. 19 The Corporation has not made a determination as to whether it was a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ended February 28, 2015 or whether it will be a PFIC for the current taxable year. The PFIC classification is fundamentally factual in nature, determined annually and subject to change. The Corporation has not made a determination as to whether it was a PFIC for the taxable year ended February 28, 2015 or whether it will be a PFIC for the current taxable year ending February 28, 2016. Whether the Corporation is a PFIC depends on complex U.S. federal income tax rules whose application to the Corporation is uncertain, and, since the PFIC status of the Corporation will depend upon the composition of its income and assets and the fair market value of its assets from time to time and generally cannot be determined until the end of a taxable year, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not be a PFIC for the current or subsequent taxable years. If the Corporation is a PFIC or if it were to become a PFIC in future taxable years while a U.S. Holder (defined as a beneficial owner of Common Shares that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is (a) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the U.S., (b) a corporation, or other entity classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, that is created or organized in or under the laws of the U.S., any state in the U.S. or the District of Columbia, (c) an estate if the income of such estate is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of the source of such income, or (d) a trust if (i) such trust has validly elected to be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (ii) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust) holds Common Shares, such U.S. Holder would generally be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including the treatment of gain realized on the sale of Common Shares as ordinary (rather than capital gain) income, potential interest charges on those gains and certain other distributions made by the Corporation and ineligibility for the preferential tax rates on dividends paid by qualified foreign corporations generally available to certain non-corporate U.S. Holders. Each U.S. purchaser is urged to consult its own tax advisor with respect to the U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of the Common Shares as may be applicable to that purchaser’s particular circumstances. 