ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The current economic conditions pose significant challenges that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in Atlantic and Cape May Counties, New Jersey. Our market has experienced a significant downturn in which we have seen falling home prices, rising foreclosures and an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies. If economic conditions do not improve or continue to decline, we could experience any of the following consequences, each of which could further adversely affect our business: • demand for our products and services could decline; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; and • loan losses may increase. We could experience further adverse consequences in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in our market due to our exposure to commercial loans across various lines of business. A prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect collateral values or cash flows of the borrowing businesses, and as a result our primary source of repayment could be insufficient to service the debt. Another adverse consequence in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in our market could be the loss of collateral value on commercial and real estate loans that are secured by real estate located in our market area. A further significant decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would be diminished. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2012, $522.2 million, or 74.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and $61.3 million, or 8.7%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Because of our location on the South Jersey shore, many of the properties securing our residential mortgages are second homes or rental properties. At December 31, 2012, 38.6% of our one- to four-family mortgage loans were secured by second homes and 13.5% were secured by rental properties. These loans generally are considered to be more risky than loans secured by the borrower’s permanent residence, since the borrower is typically dependent upon rental income to meet debt service requirements, in the case of a rental property, and when in financial difficulty is more likely to make payments on the loan secured by the borrower’s primary residence before a vacation home. Commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2012, $107.8 million, or 15.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, commercial construction loans and commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by Ocean City Home’s primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 0.57% of total loans outstanding and 69.5% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2012. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2012, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment throughout the year. Each investment that has a fair value less than book value is reviewed on a quarterly basis. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management’s review concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. As of December 31, 2012, our investment portfolio included nine corporate debt securities with a book value of $11.5 million and an estimated fair value of $10.5 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down the value of these securities. At December 31, 2012, we had an investment of $6.4 million in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of Federal Home Loan Bank stock may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates — up or down — could adversely affect our net interest spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve” — or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates — could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2012, which is the most recent date for which information is available, we held 10.4% of the deposits in Atlantic County, New Jersey, which represented the 4th largest share of deposits, respectively, out of 16 financial institutions with offices in the county. As of June 30, 2012, we held 9.7% of the deposits in Cape May County, New Jersey, which was the 6th largest share of deposits out of 14 financial institutions with offices in the county. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of the banking regulations that govern us are intended to protect depositors, the public or the insurance fund maintained by the FDIC rather than our shareholders. Banking regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth, and changes in regulations could adversely affect our ability to grow. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We operate in a highly regulated industry and may be adversely affected by supervisory actions of our regulators. Since the financial crisis that began in 2008, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses. Actions include entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on such institutions’ operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes, and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position. In 2010 and 2011, in response to the financial crisis and recession that began in 2008, significant regulatory and legislative laws were enacted resulting in broader reform and increased regulation impacting financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has created a significant shift in the way financial institutions operate. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository institutions by merging the Office of Thrift Supervision, which previously regulated Ocean City Home Bank, into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and assigning the regulation of savings and loan holding companies, including Ocean City Home, to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking regulators have proposed new consolidated capital requirements that will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in Ocean City Home Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 