D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our wholesale distribution business and such suppliers can unilaterally terminate their relationship with us, which could jeopardize our ability to deliver products to customers and result in cancellation of orders and loss of revenue and market share. Historically, Samsung has been our principal supplier of mobile phones and accessories for our wholesale distribution business. In the years ended March 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, wholesale distribution of Samsung products accounted for approximately 93.9%, 98.5% and 98.8%, respectively, of our net revenues derived from our wholesale distribution business, and 93.9%, 70.3% and 48.1%, respectively, of our total net revenues. As a result, we primarily depend on Samsung to provide adequate inventories of mobile phone products on a timely basis and with favorable pricing and other terms for our wholesale distribution business. Although we entered into a five-year wholesale distribution agreement with Samsung in July 2008 for the distribution of Samsung's mobile phone products in China, Samsung has the right to terminate this agreement if our sales volume experiences material decreases in any six-month period for reasons unacceptable to Samsung. We also obtain products from other suppliers through contracts signed generally on an annual basis. Our suppliers might not renew their contracts with us or they may, in breach of contract, fail to provide us with the quantities or models of products that we order. Furthermore, these suppliers may refuse to provide products to us on favorable or commercially reasonable terms. If any of the following occurs, we may not be able to deliver products to customers in a timely manner, if at all, resulting in order cancellations, loss of revenues and/or loss of market 6 Table of Contents share, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: •downturn in Samsung's business prospects and/or financial results; •loss of Samsung as a principal supplier; •loss of other existing suppliers; •failure to develop new suppliers; •failure to obtain favorable or reasonable pricing and other terms from suppliers; •inability of Samsung or other suppliers to satisfy our inventory needs; or •inability of Samsung or other suppliers to provide products that appeal to our customers. In addition, given our dependence on Samsung as a principal supplier, other suppliers might believe that we give preferential treatment to Samsung with respect to pricing and other terms, which may in turn cause them to refuse to supply products to us or try to negotiate favorable prices or other terms for the products they supply to us. We face a number of operational and industry risks. The market in which we operate changes rapidly, and we must adjust to these changes to remain competitive. We face a number of operational and industry risks, and the market for mobile communications products is fast-changing. Recent developments in the industry include the following: •Mobile handset technology advances rapidly, and product life cycles may be shorter than anticipated. As a retailer and wholesale distributor in this sector, we must closely monitor these changes. •The PRC mobile communications products market has traditionally been fragmented, making it difficult for manufacturers to sell products to consumers without national wholesale distributors. These wholesale distributors, including us, have had to develop efficient distribution logistics and wide retail networks. Failure to maintain such efficiencies and networks will have an adverse effect on our ability to sustain or expand our consumer base, which will in turn erode our market share. •The restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry, which began in May 2008 and was completed in the fall of 2008, resulted in three national carriers offering a combination of fixed line and mobile communications services. While it remains unclear as to how the restructuring will affect the mobile communications product industry, we must adapt to any resulting developments in the industry to remain competitive. •Mobile carriers in the PRC are increasingly offering bundled mobile phone products and wireless services. These mobile carriers typically procure mobile phone products from larger mobile phone wholesale distributors like us, rather than directly from manufacturers. In the years ended March 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, we generated approximately 5.3%, 14.4% and 10.3%, respectively, of our net revenues from our wholesale distribution to mobile carriers. Failure to provide mobile phones with integrated services tailored to mobile carriers, or to cooperate with mobile carriers in promoting mobile phones, would result in weaker customer relationships with mobile carriers, and the loss of a potential source of significant revenues. These developments, as well as other changes relating to mobile communications products retailers and wholesale distributors, may have an adverse effect on our operations if we cannot adapt effectively to these changes to remain competitive. Our failure to adapt effectively could erode our market share, result in a decline in our number of customers or lead to price reductions or increased spending for 7 Table of Contents marketing, service promotion and product wholesale distribution, any of which would adversely affect our profitability. The demand for the products that we sell in China may not continue to grow, and our revenues may decline. Our business substantially depends on the demand for products we sell in China. In the past, we have benefited from the rapid growth of the Chinese economy, which has fueled the increase in demand for consumer products, including the mobile communications products we sell. Such growth may not continue at the same rate or at all. As the Chinese mobile communications products industry matures, our mobile phone suppliers will likely focus increasingly on differentiating their products from those of their competitors, including adding more sophisticated mobile handsets and upgrading existing models. The move towards third-generation, or 3G, wireless technology will also affect the product offerings that our customers will request. We believe that our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our suppliers' ability to enhance existing products and introduce new products in a rapidly developing market, including, but not limited to, the adoption of new networking and mobile communications technologies, such as 3G technology. However, there is no guarantee that our suppliers will be able to successfully adapt to these market forces, and our customers may turn to sellers that offer mobile communications products that we cannot provide, reducing the demand for products that we sell. As a result, our business and results of operations could also suffer. We extend credit to our customers in the form of open account terms, which exposes us to credit risks and could lead to difficulty in the collection of accounts receivable. For our wholesale distribution business, we currently offer open account terms to certain customers, which may subject us to credit risks, particularly to the extent that receivables represent sales to a limited number of customers or are concentrated in certain geographic markets. The collection of accounts receivable and our ability to accelerate the collection cycle through the sale of accounts receivable may be affected by several factors, including, but not limited to: •our credit policies; •the terms of the contracts by which we extend credit to customers; •credit rating of our customers; •industry and economic conditions; •the ability of our customers to provide security, collateral or guarantees for credit extended by us; and •our operating results, financial position and cash flows and those of our customers. Adverse aspects of or changes to any of these factors, many of which are not in our control, could create delays in collection or an inability to collect accounts receivable, which could impair our cash flows and financial position and adversely affect our results of operations. We extend credit only to customers that we deem creditworthy based on an analysis of their credit profiles. However, our customers are subject to market and their own business and other risks. Accordingly, we periodically review our reserve for credit losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends and credit quality indicators. We cannot be certain that our reserve for credit losses will be adequate to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases as a result of economic conditions or if our reserves 8 Table of Contents for credit losses are not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. If we fail to effectively manage the growth and expansion of our operations, we may be unable to expand our business and increase our revenues. We have experienced rapid growth and expansion, which places significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our continued growth, we will need to implement new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improving our accounting and other internal management and control systems, all of which will require substantial efforts by management and others. We will also need to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and manage relationships with new and existing customers. In addition, as we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face additional market, technological and operational risks and challenges. As a result of any of these risks, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our strategy includes expansion by pursuing selective business opportunities and diversifying our business scope, including joint ventures and e-commerce initiatives. However, these initiatives require us to commit substantial capital resources to business areas where we possess limited experience, and we may be unable to compete effectively in such areas. Furthermore, our competitors may possess greater resources and operating experience, and our plans may be subject to economic, political and legal risks, including obtaining relevant regulatory approvals. Failure to achieve expected results in these new business areas may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions and alliances may expose us to new risks or fail to perform as expected. Conversely, our failure to complete acquisitions, enter into suitable alliances or integrate acquired companies may hinder our growth and future profitability. One of the key components of our strategy is to grow through acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances on a selective basis, particularly with respect to our retail operations. Joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to operational, regulatory and market risks, as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. We have completed acquisitions of nine local retail chains. Our ability to realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions may depend on our ability to retain the employees, efficiently integrate their operations, understand the factors contributing to the success of these retail chains and continue to adapt to local market dynamics. Our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies and their operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including division of management's attention and difficulties in retaining customers of acquired companies. Furthermore, acquired companies might not perform as expected for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes or the loss of key customers and personnel. Moreover, we may fail to identify potential issues or risks in our due diligence of the targets or properly address them prior to our acquisitions, and we may suffer losses or be subject to liabilities if such risks materialize after the acquisitions are completed. If we are not able to realize the benefits envisioned from such acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, our overall profitability and growth plans may be hindered. In addition, we may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates or alliance partners. Even if we identify suitable candidates or partners, we may be unable to complete an acquisition or alliance on commercially acceptable terms. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement our growth strategies effectively or efficiently. Moreover, we may fail to negotiate successfully with the potential target companies and be unable to acquire them at the prices we expect, or at all. In addition, our acquisition and integration process may 9 Table of Contents divert management from operating our existing business, negatively affecting our earnings and revenues. The average selling prices of older mobile communications products are subject to rapid decreases, and products may become obsolete or less marketable. Therefore, we may not be able to adjust our product mix and optimize pricing successfully. As with most electronics-based products, average selling prices of mobile communications products are typically highest at the time of introduction of new products, which utilize the latest technology, and tend to decrease over time as such products become commoditized and are replaced by newer generation products. While Samsung, our main supplier for wholesale distribution business, generally adjusts the price it charges us for Samsung products based on product life and may provide price protection against price decreases in certain circumstances as our business continues to grow, we may increasingly be subject to downward pricing pressure, as Samsung and our other suppliers for our retail and wholesale distribution businesses may not provide us with appropriate pricing adjustments or other forms of price protections. We may not be able to predict the timing or amount of any decline in the average selling prices of the products we sell or distribute. Moreover, we must anticipate future technological changes and continually identify, obtain and market new products in order to minimize the risk of product obsolescence or decreased marketability. If we were unable to adjust product mix and optimize pricing, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We outsource our warehousing, logistics and certain marketing functions to third parties. Failure of these third parties to fulfill their responsibilities may prevent us from fulfilling obligations to our customers and negatively affect our ability to maintain or promote our brand and may limit our future success. We believe that our customers' recognition of and familiarity with our reputation and brand are important to our business, and our reputation depends on the goodwill associated with our brand. We outsource our warehousing, logistics and certain marketing functions to third parties, which are responsible for storing inventory, delivering products and printing marketing materials. If any of these third-party providers fails to fulfill any of its responsibilities, we may not be able to fulfill our obligations to our customers on a timely basis or at all and our brand image and reputation may suffer. This could lead to the erosion of our relationships with potential and existing customers, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Restrictive covenants under our secured credit facility and any future indebtedness may limit the manner in which we operate and an event of default under our secured credit facility and any future indebtedness may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our EUR15 million (approximately $20.2 million) secured credit facility, or FMO Facility, with the Netherlands Development Finance Company, or FMO, contains, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants and conditions that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur, guarantee or provide collateral for additional debt including borrowings of our subsidiaries and affiliates; •pay dividends or make distributions to our shareholders; •secure loans, make capital expenditures or engage in investments and acquisitions; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •create liens; •acquire, merge or consolidate with other companies; and •transfer or sell all or substantially all of our assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries. 10 Table of Contents As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and may be unable to engage in certain business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. The FMO Facility also includes certain financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a certain coverage ratio, solvency ratio, leverage ratio and current ratio. Failure to meet the financial covenants, or a breach of any of the other restrictive covenants, would result in a default under the FMO Facility. Upon the occurrence of any default under the FMO Facility, FMO could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, or could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. If FMO accelerates the repayment of the borrowings, we may not have sufficient cash at that time to repay the borrowings or such repayment may disrupt our cash flow and liquidity plans. If we cannot repay those amounts, FMO could proceed against the collateral granted to it to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets, including the shares Pypo Cayman holds in Pypo HK and all equity interest Pypo HK holds in Funtalk PRC, as collateral under the FMO Facility. In addition, our failure to comply with any financial or other covenants under the FMO Facility or an assessment that we are likely to fail to comply with such covenants could lead us to seek an amendment to or a waiver of the covenants contained in the FMO Facility or such alternative financing. Based on the financial position and results of Pypo HK as of and for the year ended March 31, 2009, Pypo HK failed to meet the financial covenants for maintaining the minimum EBITDA, adjusted net income threshold and margin, solvency ratio, leverage ratio and current ratio. Based on the financial position and results of Pypo HK as of and for the year ended March 31, 2010, Pypo HK also failed to meet the financial covenants for maintaining the solvency ratio, current ratio and net margin. Although we obtained an amendment and waiver of certain breaches and potential breaches from FMO, the waiver only covered HK Pypo's breaches of financial covenants for the period from March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010. Pypo HK was also not in compliance with certain negative undertakings, including obtaining pre-approval for acquisitions and negative pledge in the same period. We cannot assure you that the prior amendment and waiver was effective against these breaches and other potential breaches. In addition, we have not complied with all of the conditions relating to our prior amendment and waiver, including the payment of EUR1.5 million (approximately $2.0 million) in the form of our ordinary shares, and, although we have obtained written confirmation from FMO that the prior amendment and waiver remains effective, we cannot assure you that this confirmation has cured such non-compliance or that we will be able to meet the relevant conditions going forward. Furthermore, repeated non-compliance may also damage our relationship with FMO and hinder our ability to obtain needed waivers and amendments in the future. We anticipate that for the three months ended June 30, 2010, Pypo HK will not meet the relevant financial covenants under the FMO Facility and may continue to be in breach of certain financial and other restrictive covenants for the quarters ending September 30, 2010, December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011 and the year ending March 31, 2011. We are in discussions with FMO to obtain a waiver for these breaches and other potential breaches. If we breach any covenants, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain any amendments to or waivers of such covenants contained in the FMO Facility or obtain alternative financing on commercially viable terms. In addition, any amendment to or waiver of the covenants may involve upfront fees, higher annual interest costs and other terms less favorable to us than those currently offered by the FMO Facility. Furthermore, although we have been advised by our PRC counsel that any default under the FMO Facility would not result in a cross-default under our domestic loans with PRC banks, we cannot assure you that should the borrowings under the FMO Facility be accelerated, our financial condition will not be impaired such that we may fail to meet certain restricted covenants under our domestic debt agreements. Any defaults, including cross-defaults, in our other loans may result in a substantial portion of our outstanding debt becoming immediately due and could hinder our ability to borrow additional 11 Table of Contents amounts from domestic banks, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We have pledged our assets as collateral under a debt facility of a third party. An event of default under the debt facility could lead to a seizure of the collateral which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Funtalk PRC pledged all of its equity interests in its wholly owned subsidiary, Jiangsu Pypo Technology Co., Ltd., or Jiangsu Pypo, to CITIC Trust Co., Ltd., or CITIC, as collateral to secure a debt facility in an amount up to RMB90 million (approximately $13.2 million) between CITIC and Shanghai Xinmeng Investment Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Xinmeng, an entity that is not affiliated with us. Jiangsu Pypo owns 100% equity interest in two of our wholly owned subsidiaries and 50% equity interest in 17 of our subsidiaires. We provided this collateral to Shanghai Xinmeng because Shanghai Jiadeli Supermarket Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Jiadeli, provided a loan of RMB80 million (approximately $11.7 million) to Shanghai Xieheng Commercial Co., Ltd., or Xieheng Commercial, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Beijing Funtalk to meet Xieheng Commercial's working capital needs. Our pledge of Jiangsu Pypo's equity interests will be released upon Xieheng Commercial's repayment of the loan to Shanghai Jiadeli or Shanghai Xinmeng's repayment of its debt to CITIC. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions." If Shanghai Xinmeng cannot repay the debt facility provided by CITIC before the pledge is released, CITIC could exercise its rights to enforce the pledge according to the PRC laws. For example, CITIC may cause Funtalk PRC to transfer all or part of its equity interest in Jiangsu Pypo to third party in order to collect the loan amount from such transfer consideration. If Funtalk PRC ceases to be the owner of Jiangsu Pypo, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. On July 9, 2010, Xieheng Commercial repaid the loan and accrued interests to Shanghai Jiadeli. We are in the process of obtaining a release of the pledge of Jiangsu Pypo's equity interests. Our ability to meet demand for the merchandise we sell or distribute depends on our ability to maintain an optimal level of inventory. We believe that maintaining an optimal level of inventory is critical to our business. We generally maintain approximately 40 to 50 days of inventory supplies for our wholesale distribution segment, and approximately 30 to 40 days of inventory supplies for our retail segment. These inventory levels may not be adequate to meet customer demands, and we may not be able to adopt new inventory policies in time to adjust to such demands. If we overstock inventory, the working capital required to maintain our operations will increase and we may incur additional financing costs. If we understock inventory, we may not be able to generate sales that we would have otherwise generated if the product had been available. We depend on technology and computer systems for the timely and successful management of our supply chain and sales, development of our wholesale distribution network and support of our retail division. The supply chain management, wholesale distribution network, sales management and retail functions on which our business depends are technology intensive. We rely significantly on our ability to acquire, develop and adopt new technologies to support our operations and differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors. In addition, new technologies affect the demand for our products, the time and manner in which we deliver these products to customers and our ability to maintain and streamline our sales function and support our retail division. We depend on a large number of software applications and computers to develop our retail and wholesale distribution networks, manage sales relationships and track and manage inventory. Any error, defect or failure in our software, hardware or backup facilities could delay product delivery and result 12 Table of Contents in key inventory and sales information being unavailable in a timely manner, all of which may harm our business. Our sales depend on the popularity of the products we sell or distribute, as well as consumer preferences and spending patterns, which are outside of our control. Our sales depend in part on the strength and reputation of the products that we carry, and are subject to consumers' perception of the products that we sell. In our retail and wholesale distribution business, the products that we sell are designed and produced by the mobile phone manufacturers. Therefore, we have limited or no control over the designs and development of the products that we sell. The success of our operations depends in part on the manufacturers' marketing abilities, our own ability to select new models from our suppliers to gain customer acceptance, and our ability to make available sufficient quantities of attractive and popular products to satisfy consumer demand. In particular, the performance of our retail outlets is sensitive to local consumer spending patterns. People in different geographical locations of the PRC have different shopping patterns and tastes. If we or the manufacturers whose products we sell are unable to respond promptly to changing customer demands, demand for our products may decrease and our sales may be adversely and significantly affected. Conversely, if we or the manufacturers fail to anticipate increased consumer demand for our products, we may experience inventory shortages, which would result in lost sales and could negatively impact our profitability. Any negative publicity in connection with the brands of the products we sell or the manufacturers may also result in a decrease in our sales. We have limited flexibility on the pricing of our products in our retail business. In our retail business, we are obliged to comply with uniform retail prices set by certain manufacturers including Samsung and Nokia or mobile carriers. We are not allowed to offer discounts on new products typically until 30 days after the launch of the products at our retail outlets. We therefore have very limited flexibility on the pricing of the products. Should we experience slow movements of certain items due to mispricing by the manufacturers or other factors, we may not be able to dispose of excessive inventory through markdowns or promotional sales in a timely manner or at all. As a result, our working capital may increase, our sales and profits may decrease, and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively and materially affected. We may fail to sustain the same level of retail outlet sales and new retail outlets may fail to break even within our projected time frames. The success of our retail business depends on a number of factors, such as our ability to introduce products which respond successfully and effectively to local consumer preferences, the success of our marketing efforts and the manufacturers, and our ability to compete with other retailers and distributors of mobile communications products. We are constantly reviewing our sales performance data, both by retail outlet and by region. Our expansion strategies are intended to benefit our growth in the long term. However, it takes time for new retail outlets to break even or reach the same level of profitability as mature retail outlets and, as we expand our retail network by adding new retail outlets, we may experience a decrease in average sales per retail outlet at least initially. Should the new retail outlets experience prolonged delays in breaking even or achieving our desired level of profitability, our overall profitability may be affected. In addition, in our existing retail outlets, whether we will be able to sustain or continue to grow our sales per retail outlet is subject to a number of factors, including the local GDP and consumer spending power and spending pattern, the pedestrian flow of the area where our retail outlets are located and the competition that we encounter, many of which are outside of our control. If we are unable to increase retail outlet sales in line with increasing costs, our overall performance and profitability will be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We operate in a competitive market which may result in lower profit margins. The retail and wholesale distribution businesses for mobile communications products in the PRC are competitive with no practical barriers to entry. We experience competition from other retailers and wholesale distributors in the geographical markets in which we currently operate and expect to face similar competition in the markets which we plan to enter. We compete with other retailers and wholesale distributors primarily for products and retail outlet locations. Some of our competitors may have more financial and human resources, better access to attractive retail outlet locations, more competitive pricing strategies or closer relationships with manufacturers or mobile carriers than we have. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our operational results and financial condition. Competition may lead to, among other things, stricter terms in agreements with manufacturers or mobile carriers, higher costs for retail space and lower sales per retail outlet, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and lower our profit margins. If we fail to obtain or maintain all required licenses, permits and approvals, or if we are required to take actions to obtain such licenses, permits and approvals which are time-consuming or costly, our business operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business operations are subject to a significant number of licenses, permits, filings, registrations and approvals in the PRC, such as those relating to foreign direct investment, retail and wholesale distribution businesses, e-commerce, employee stock option plan, anti-monopoly, borrowings, taxation, foreign exchange, social insurance, labor, fire prevention, and public health and safety. Our ability to continue to operate our existing business and to successfully implement our expansion strategies into new businesses depends on our obtaining, maintaining and renewing (where necessary) the relevant regulatory approvals under PRC laws. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining or renewing such approvals, we may be prohibited from continuing our operations, and we may have to expend considerable time and costs in order to sustain our business. We have many operating entities located in a number of cities throughout China, which rely on the availability of space and facilities for lease in order to conduct business, and we face certain risks with respect to the properties we lease. We have more than 120 operating entities devoted to our product retail and wholesale distribution business. These operating entities are located throughout China, and most of them lease the facilities in which they operate. The terms of the existing leases for these operating entities generally range from three to five years and expire in 2011 to 2013. As these leases expire, we will need to negotiate the terms and conditions of renewal, and may be unable to renew leases on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. As a result, we may have to pay increased rent or relocate, which may result in additional costs and disruptions to our business. We also face certain risks with respect to the properties we lease, including obtaining required documentation and consents and maintaining compliance with building codes: •As of May 31, 2010, we had not received copies of title certificates for approximately 6.3% of the properties that we leased from third parties, which included approximately 12.2% of the properties that we leased for Shanghai Lezhiyu Telecommunications Equipment Co., Ltd. (formerly known as Shanghai Xieheng Telecommunications Equipment Co., Ltd.), or Xieheng, our retail chain based in Shanghai, which we acquired in November 2009, or approximately 3.9% of the properties we leased as a whole. In the year ended March 31, 2010, the revenues derived from Xieheng accounted for approximately 12.7% of our revenues generated from our retail business, or approximately 6.5% of our total revenues. In the PRC, lessees typically receive copies of title certificates from lessors as evidence of the applicable lessor's or owner's ownership of a leased property. For the leased properties that we had not received title 14 Table of Contents certificates, we do not know whether such leased properties are subject to any mortgage absent such title certificates. Any challenges to the title documents or any mortgage of any leased properties, if successful, could impair the operations of our business. As such, we cannot assure you that title to properties we currently lease will remain unchallenged. •For leases for which the immediate lessors are not the ultimate owners of the leased properties, the lessors typically need to secure consent from the owners to sublease the properties to us. As of May 31, 2010, the lessor did not receive consent from the owners to sublease approximately 2.2% of our total leased properties. A lessor's failure to obtain title to a property or to receive any necessary approvals from the ultimate owner or the primary leaseholder could potentially invalidate a lease or result in the renegotiation of a lease on less favorable terms to us. •As of May 31, 2010, approximately 2.6% of our leased properties were subject to mortgages at the time the leases were signed. The lessor did not receive consent from the mortgage holder on any of these properties. If such mortgage holder were to foreclose on the mortgage securing the property, our lease may not be binding on any subsequent transferee of the property. •As of May 31, 2010, agreements covering approximately 1.9% of the lease agreements for the properties we leased have expired. We are in the process of negotiating the terms and conditions of renewal, but may be unable to renew leases on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. As a result, we may have to pay increased rent or relocate, which may result in additional costs and disrupt our business. •The properties we leased from third parties may not be in compliance with all building codes. Although we are not aware of any material noncompliance with building codes, such as unauthorized building structures, on the properties we leased from third parties, we cannot provide any assurance that our leased properties are or will be in compliance with all applicable building codes, and we could incur expenses to remedy any noncompliance with building codes relating to our leased properties. If our existing leases are terminated for any reason prior to their expiration (including, among other things, the considerations set forth above), we may need to find alternative premises. In such a case, we may not be able to find suitable premises on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability, loss of data or business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any disruption to our business, litigation or natural disaster might cause us to incur substantial costs or divert our resources. In addition, we do not carry insurance with respect to certain risks, including product liability insurance. As a result, any product liability or other claims may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may need to stop selling products that result in product liability claims, which could negatively affect the range of mobile phone products that we offer and the size of our customer base. We may be subject to product liability claims for products we sell. Under current PRC laws, manufacturers, wholesale distributors and retailers may be liable for damages caused by defective products in China. Therefore, we may be exposed to product liability claims, as end users may choose to sue us in addition to suing the product manufacturers or wholesale distributors when a claim arises. As a result, we may expend significant time, money and resources to defend or settle any product liability claims. PRC laws do not require retailers in China to maintain, and we do not maintain, product liability insurance. Moreover, under some of our current arrangements with manufacturers, manufacturers are not obligated to indemnify us against claims associated with products made by such manufacturers that we sell directly to end-users. Therefore, if we were found liable, we 15 Table of Contents would be responsible for damages arising from such product liability claims and would not be able to obtain any indemnification from the manufacturers or any refund under any insurance policy. In addition, our reputation may be materially and adversely affected and we may consequently lose market share even if we can successfully defend against or settle such claims. Our growth and prospects depend on market demand for the products we sell and distribute, which is extremely difficult to predict. Our business and operating results depend upon demand for the products we sell and distribute. We cannot ensure the success of any of our mobile handset models, because the sales of such products depend on their market acceptance and desirability, which depend on a number of factors, none of which we can accurately predict. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: •consumer tastes and preferences; •consumer reaction to competing products; •availability of alternative forms of mobile communications products; and •general economic conditions and consumer confidence. We believe that our ability to market, sell and distribute attractive and desirable mobile handset models and accessories to a wide range of customers remains crucial to our future success. Although we have enjoyed success in our retail and wholesale distribution of various brands of mobile phones, our future programs and product offerings may not achieve similar levels of success. If we cannot consistently and accurately predict how the market receives current and future product offerings, our revenue from any or all of our sold and distributed products and profitability may decrease. Our business depends on our good relationships with mobile carriers. If we fail to maintain a good working relationship with any of the mobile carriers, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The success of our retail business and our growth depend, to a significant extent, on our relationship with each of China's mobile carriers, namely China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. We collaborate with these mobile carriers to manage and operate their carrier-branded retail outlets and to operate their co-branded retail outlets. As of May 31, 2010, approximately 87.1% of our retail outlets were either carrier-branded or co-branded. We generate revenues from sales of mobile communications products and services in such carrier-branded and co-branded retail outlets, as well as from commissions paid by the mobile carriers to us for our services in helping them to develop their subscriber base and market their mobile products and services. If our relationship with any of the mobile carriers deteriorates, they may terminate, or significantly reduce the scope of, their cooperation with us which could significantly reduce revenue generated from such mobile carrier's retail outlets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a good relationship with each of the mobile carriers. For instance, if we experience any material disagreement with a mobile carrier in negotiating the terms of our contracts to operate retail outlets, or if we fail to comply with the terms of our contracts with them or at all, our working relationship with such mobile carrier may be adversely affected. We may, from time to time, have disagreements over the commission or other supporting fees to be paid by mobile carriers. In addition, we may decide to terminate our cooperation with a mobile carrier with respect to certain retail outlets when another mobile carrier offers better terms of cooperation with respect to such outlets. While we will consider the overall impact on our relationships with the mobile carrier when making a switch, we may infuriate the mobile carrier as a result. In addition, if the mobile carrier terminates a contract with us, or decides not to enter into a new outlet arrangement with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to secure an alternative arrangement with another carrier in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure or undue delay by any of the mobile 16 Table of Contents carriers to comply with the terms of any of the contracts, or its unwillingness to cooperate with us for any reason, may also have a material and adverse impact on our business operations. In addition, we recently started to collaborate with mobile carriers to distribute mobile phone models designated by the mobile carriers of other international and local brands. If we experience any material disagreement with a mobile carrier, our working relationship with such mobile carrier may be adversely affected. Such mobile carrier may cease to use us to distribute mobile phone products designated by them or only use us on a limited basis, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The loss or reduction in orders from principal customers or a reduction in the pricing of the products that we distribute may cause revenues to decline and impair cash flows. Our principal customers of wholesale distribution business operate in the mobile phone retail industry, which remains highly fragmented. Many of our customers have experienced severe price competition and, for this and other reasons, may seek to obtain products or services from us at lower prices than we have been able to provide customers in the past. The loss of any of our principal customers of our wholesale distribution business, a reduction in the amount of products or services our customers order, or our inability to maintain current terms, including price, with such customers could cause our revenues to decline and impair our cash flows. Although we have entered into contracts with a certain number of our largest customers of our wholesale distribution business, there can be no assurance that any of these customers will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. The loss or reduction of vendor rebates payable to us in connection with the products we distribute may cause revenues to decline and impair cash flows. Certain of our suppliers and wholesale distributors, through manufacturer and new product promotions and volume discounts, provide favorable purchasing terms to us through volume-based or other rebates. Our supply contracts may specify these purchasing terms, or we and the relevant manufacturer may negotiate such terms. These vendor rebates help reduce our costs in distributing or selling mobile communications products to customers and boost our revenues. As of the date of this annual report, our suppliers and wholesale distributors have not reduced rebates or notified us of any such reductions. However, if our suppliers and wholesale distributors cease providing or decrease the amount of such rebates, or if we are unable to negotiate favorable rebate terms with suppliers and wholesale distributors in future supply contracts, our revenues could decline and our cash flows could be impaired. The success of our business depends on quality controls by third-party manufacturers. Suppliers of mobile phone sets and accessories typically provide limited warranties to us, which we pass through to customers. As a retailer and wholesale distributor, we do not directly monitor the quality, design or control procedures of our suppliers. If a product that we sell or distribute has defects, safety or performance problems, our reputation and ability to sell or distribute other products to customers could suffer. Due to high demand for some of our suppliers' products and services, we have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience in the future, delays in the delivery of such products or the provision of technical support. If we fail to maintain existing relationships with these suppliers, or should any of our major suppliers encounter difficulties in the manufacturing or shipment of its products, including due to natural disasters or otherwise, it will be difficult for us to find alternative providers for such products on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. As a result, our business may be interrupted and our sales adversely impacted. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns. Our operating results remain subject to a number of seasonal factors in the markets in which we operate. These factors may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. These fluctuations are a result of several factors, including, but not limited to: •promotions and subsidies by mobile phone suppliers; •the timing of local holidays and other events affecting consumer demand; •the timing of the introduction of new products by our suppliers and competitors; •purchasing patterns of customers in different local markets; and •product availability and pricing. Consumer electronics and retail sales in many geographic markets tend to be seasonal, resulting in uneven sales volumes for us. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. If unanticipated events occur, including delays in securing adequate inventories of competitive products at times of peak sales or the existence of surplus inventory upon the occurrence of a significant drop in demand during these periods, our operating results could be harmed. As a result of these seasonal factors, our interim results may not be indicative of our annual results. We may continue to be negatively affected by the world financial and economic crisis and slowdown in China's economy. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, the global capital and credit markets, including those in the United States and throughout the world, have been experiencing volatility and disruption, which has led to a downturn in global economic conditions. China's economy also slowed down in late 2008 and most of 2009, which in turn negatively impacted the retail sector and the market for the wholesale distribution of mobile communications products in the PRC. Our revenues, financial conditions, results of operations and liquidity were adversely impacted in the second half of 2008 and in early 2009. Although the overall global economic conditions and credit environment have shown signs of recovery since late 2009, we cannot predict whether such recovery will continue during the rest of 2010 and beyond. Any persistent slow-down in China's economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions could adversely affect our business and financial results. A slowdown in China's economy, whether as a result of the world financial and economic crisis or any other factors, could negatively impact consumer spending patterns. Recessionary economic cycles, inflation, deflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels and other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits in the PRC could adversely affect the demand for products we sell in our outlets or distributes to our retail customers and regional wholesale distributors. Our retail outlets and our retail customers could experience reduced traffic or limitations on the prices they can charge for our products, either of which could reduce sales and profit margins. In addition, the world financial and economic crisis adversely affected the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and resulted in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for the products we sell or distribute or limitations on the quantity of products supplied to us. Furthermore, these economic conditions make it difficult for us and our customers and suppliers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, which could cause our customers to slow spending on the products we distribute and sell, thus delaying and lengthening sales cycles. If the mobile communications products market in China deteriorates due to these global economic conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain financing for our PRC subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company, we may decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by making capital contributions to such entities. The PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterparts, must approve these capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to any such capital contributions. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our equity or debt offerings and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could in turn adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have made several recent acquisitions, and are required to annually test goodwill and other intangible assets, including the goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations or changes in competition. Adverse changes in the aforementioned factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could negatively affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in impairment charges. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a relatively short operating history and are subject to the risks of a new enterprise, any one of which could limit our growth, services or market development. Our relatively short operating history makes it difficult to predict how our businesses will develop. We face risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies, such as: •uncertainties in the demand for the products that we sell or distribute; •the evolving nature of the mobile communications products industry; •the uncertainties associated with our ability to continue our growth while trying to achieve and maintain our profitability; •preserving our competitive position in the mobile communications products retail and wholesale distribution markets in China; •implementing our strategies and modifying them from time to time to respond effectively to competition and changes in our customer preferences and needs; •increasing awareness of our brand and products and continuing to develop customer loyalty; and •attracting, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel. If we are not able to meet the challenges of building and managing our business, we will likely face reduced growth, lower margins, additional operational costs and lower income. 19 Table of Contents Our success depends substantially on our management and certain key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our management and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of Mr. Kuo Zhang, our chairman of board of directors, and Mr. Dongping Fei, our chief executive officer. If one or more of our management or key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily, or at all. As a result, our business could be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and we would incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel to replace our former key employees. If any of our management or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. If the value of our brand or image diminishes or if we fail to protect our brand and other intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our brand is integral to our selling and marketing efforts. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brand and image depends to a large extent on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining the quality of products and services across our operations, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we cannot satisfy customer needs or if our public image or reputation were otherwise diminished, our business transactions with our customers may decline, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. As the right to use Internet domain names is not rigorously regulated in China, if other companies incorporate in their domain names elements similar in writing or pronunciation to the "Funtalk" or "Pypo" trademark or its Chinese equivalent, it may result in confusion between those companies and us and may lead to the dilution of our brand value, which could adversely affect our business. China's history of intellectual property rights enforcement is not as extensive as that of the United States, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we cannot adequately protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. We have imposed contractual obligations on employees and consultants and have taken other precautionary measures to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information and restrict the use of our proprietary information other than for our benefit. If our employees and consultants do not honor their contractual obligations and misappropriate our proprietary information, our business would suffer as a result. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our reporting obligations as a public company has placed, and will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We are a relatively young company with limited accounting personnel and other resources to address our internal controls and procedures. Although we have established a compliance committee to conduct our internal audit and instituted various internal compliance policies in 2010, we may still need to further improve our internal control system. In addition, we must implement financial and disclosure control 20 Table of Contents procedures and corporate governance practices that enable us to comply, on a stand alone basis, with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules. Failure to quickly establish the necessary controls and procedures would make it difficult to comply with SEC rules and regulations with respect to internal control and financial reporting. We will need to take further actions to continue to improve our internal controls. If we cannot implement solutions to any weaknesses in our existing internal controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted. We are in the process of instituting changes to our internal controls and management systems to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and file annual management assessments of their effectiveness with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The management assessment will be required to include a certification of our internal controls by our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. As of the date of this annual report, our management had identified certain significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, such as recurrence of certain audit and reclassification adjustments, lack of proper record and controls for related party transactions, lack of accurate and formal procedure to record and account for rebates and price protection, and lack of written documentation and procedures and policies relating to approvals of transactions with certain non-controlling shareholders. We have undertaken and completed certain initiatives and remedial action in those areas and are continuing such remedial action. For example, we have established a compliance committee consisting of two of our independent directors to oversee our internal control procedures and have made improvements to our management information system to improve certain manual controls. We, our directors, management and employees may get involved in legal or administrative proceedings and adverse results may harm our business or reputation. We, our management or employees may from time to time become a party to legal or administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Such legal and other proceedings may include, but are not limited to, actions or disputes relating to commercial contracts, employment, non-competition and labor law, intellectual property, fiduciary duties, personal injury, property damage or other harm resulting from acts or omissions by us or our employees. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, our management or employees, including remedies or damage awards. Any adverse results in such litigation and other proceedings may harm our business or reputation. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, or the memorandum and articles, and subject at all times to the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (2009 Revision), or the Companies Law. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibility of the directors under Cayman Islands law are governed by common law principles derived from cases in the Cayman Islands and other commonwealth and common law countries. The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of directors under Cayman Islands law differ somewhat from those established under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law compared to the United States, and some 21 Table of Contents states (such as Delaware) have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law, which could negatively affect your shareholder rights and protections. As a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from certain SEC requirements that provide shareholders with protections and information that must be made available to shareholders of U.S. public companies. We are a foreign private issuer, which has reduced reporting obligations under the Exchange Act as compared to United States public companies, resulting in fewer costs associated with financial and reporting compliance. For example, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies, including: •the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; •the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; •provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material non-public information; and •the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any "short swing" trading transactions, or a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer's equity securities within less than six months. As a foreign private issuer, we will file an annual report on Form 20-F within six months of the close of each year ended March 31 (within four months of the close of each year ended March 31, starting with the year ending March 31, 2012) and reports on Form 6-K relating to certain material events promptly after we publicly announce these events. However, because of the above exemptions for foreign private issuers, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring shareholder approval. As of July 8, 2010, our executive officers, directors and other affiliates own over 92.1% of our voting shares. These shareholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ordinary shares, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended March 31, 2010. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position. A non-United States corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if, applying certain look-through rules, either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during the taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of 22 Table of Contents our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, the composition of our income and assets (after applying such look-through rules) will be affected by how, and how quickly, we and our subsidiaries use the cash generated in our business operations and any future financing transactions. If we were to be a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined below under "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Tax Considerations") holds its ordinary shares, various adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. See "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules." We may be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in significantly greater United States federal income tax liability to us. Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, generally provides that a corporation organized outside the United States which acquires, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a United States corporation for United States federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired corporation, by reason of owning shares (or being treated as owning shares) of the acquired corporation, own at least 80% of either the voting power or the value of the stock (including certain options and warrants treated as stock) of the acquiring corporation after the acquisition and if the foreign corporation does not have substantial business activities in its country of organization. If Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code applied to the Business Combination, then, among other things, we, as the surviving entity in the Business Combination, would be subject to United States federal income tax on our worldwide taxable income following the Business Combination as if we were a United States corporation. After the completion of the share exchange between us and the former shareholders of Pypo Cayman, which occurred immediately after and as part of the same plan as the redomestication of MK Arizona, the former stockholders of MK Arizona, by reason of owning (or being treated as owning) shares of MK Arizona, owned less than 80% of our ordinary shares (including certain options and warrants treated as our ordinary shares). Accordingly, we do not believe the 80% threshold under Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code has been met. However, due to the absence of full guidance on how the rules of Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code apply to the Business Combination, this result is not entirely free from doubt. If, for example, the redomestication were ultimately determined for purposes of Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code as occurring prior to, and separate from, the share exchange, the share ownership threshold for applicability of Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code would be satisfied (and we would be treated as a United States corporation for United States federal income tax purposes) because the stockholders of MK Arizona, by reason of owning (or being treated as owning) stock of MK Arizona, would own all of our shares (including certain options and warrants treated as ordinary shares) immediately after the redomestication. Although normal "step transaction" tax principles may support the view that the redomestication and the share exchange are viewed together for purposes of determining whether Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code is applicable, because of the absence of direct guidance under Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, this result is not entirely free from doubt, and therefore there is no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will agree with us on this matter. Moreover, we have not sought a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on this issue. In addition, at the time of the Business Combination, counsel to MK Arizona opined that because after the completion of the share exchange between us and Pypo Cayman shareholders, which occurred immediately after and as part of the same plan as the redomistication of MK Arizona, the former stockholders of MK Arizona, by reason of owning shares of MK Arizona, would own less than 80% of 23 Table of Contents our ordinary shares, Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code should not apply to treat us as a United States corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. MK Arizona's counsel cautioned, however, that due to the absence of full guidance on how the rules of Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code will apply to the Business Combination, this result is not entirely free from doubt. The opinion of MK Arizona's counsel addressing the foregoing was included as exhibit 8.1 to pre-effective amendment no. 8 to MK Arizona's Form S-4 (file no. 333-153492) filed May 14, 2009, and was subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications set forth therein. As a result, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code to us. The balance of this discussion, including the discussion under "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," assumes that we will be treated as a foreign corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our retail and e-commerce businesses in the PRC do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in such businesses, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to restructure our operations. Substantially all of our retail and e-commerce businesses are conducted through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities, Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian, and their respective shareholders in China. The applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations currently impose strict approval requirements on foreign-invested companies in the retail business or providing value-added telecommunications service in China. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulatory Matters." We have entered into contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities and their shareholders, all of which are PRC domestic companies or citizens, which enable us to, among other things, exercise effective control over these entities and their subsidiaries. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions". In the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, the contractual arrangements are valid, binding and enforceable and do not violate applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations currently in effect. However, if any of us, our subsidiaries, our consolidated variable interest entities, their respective shareholders and subsidiaries are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, rules or regulations, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, which is the primary regulator of the telecommunications industry in China, or MOFCOM, which is the primary regulator of foreign investment in China, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, which is the primary regulator of the foreign exchange in China, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, and the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, would have broad discretion in dealing with these violations, including: •revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC operating subsidiaries or our consolidated variable interest entities; •confiscating relevant income and imposing fines and other penalties; •discontinuing or restricting the business and operations of our PRC operating subsidiaries or our consolidated variable interest entities; •requiring us or our PRC operating subsidiaries or our consolidated variable interest entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; •restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of any equity or debt offering to finance our businesses and operations in China; or 24 Table of Contents •imposing conditions or requirements which we or our PRC operating subsidiaries or our consolidated variable interest entities may not be able to comply with. The imposition of any of these penalties would materially impair our ability to conduct our business, as well as have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are found to be in violation of the PRC anti-monopoly laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties or be forced to restructure our retail business, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On August 30, 2007, the PRC National People's Congress adopted the PRC Anti-monopoly Law, or the AML, which became effective on August 1, 2008. On August 1, 2008, the PRC State Council adopted Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, or the Notification Provisions, which became effective on August 3, 2008. On November 21, 2009, the MOFCOM, which is the primary regulator of notification of concentration of undertakings in China, passed the Measures on Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, or the Notification Measures, which became effective January 1, 2010. In addition, the relevant PRC governmental authorities have passed some other related rules, regulations and guidelines from time to time, such as Guidelines on the Definition of the "Relevant Market", Measures on Review of Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, Guiding Opinion on Reporting of Concentrations of Business Operators, and Guiding Opinion on Documents and Information Required for Reporting of Concentrations of Business Operators. Pursuant to the AML and the Notification Provisions, when a concentration of undertakings occurs and reaches any of the following thresholds, the undertakings concerned shall file a prior notification with the MOFCOM: (i) the combined worldwide turnover of all the undertakings concerned in the preceding financial year is more than RMB10 billion, and the nationwide turnover within China of each of at least two of the undertakings concerned in the preceding financial year is more than RMB400 million; or (ii) the combined nationwide turnovers within China of all the undertakings concerned in the preceding financial year is more than RMB2 billion, and the nationwide turnover within China of each of at least two of the undertakings concerned in the preceding financial year is more than RMB 400 million. "Concentration of undertakings" means any of the following: (i) merger of undertakings; (ii) acquisition of control over another undertaking by acquiring equity or assets; or (iii) acquisition of control over, or exercising decisive influence on, another undertaking by contract or by any other means. Pursuant to the above laws and regulations, without the clearance of prior notification from the MOFCOM, no concentration of undertakings shall be implemented and effected. If such prior notification is not obtained, the MOFCOM may order the concentration to cease its operations, dispose of shares or assets, transfer the business of the concentration within a time limit, take any other necessary measures to restore the situation before the concentration, and may impose a fine of less than RMB500,000. Furthermore, the business operator of such concentration shall assume civil liabilities of any loss to an entity or individual caused by the concentration. From August 2008 to June 2010, we conducted a series of acquisitions, including the following: (1) Beijing Funtalk acquired 51% of the outstanding equity interest of Jiangsu Guanzhilin Mobile Phones Hypermarket Co., Ltd., or Jiangsu Guanzhilin, from a third party in October 2008, and subsequently acquired the remaining 49% of the outstanding equity interest of Jiangsu Guanzhilin from a third party in September 2009, and (2) Beijing Funtalk acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of Xieheng from a third party in November 2009. Both of the above acquisitions may have triggered the prior notification of concentration under the AML and the Notification Provisions. At the time of such acquisitions, however, the Notification Measures which provided detailed explanations on the calculation of the turnover of the concentration were not publicly issued. Therefore, it was 25 Table of Contents uncertain whether the above acquisitions would trigger the prior notification of concentration requirement at the time, and Beijing Funtalk did not make a prior notification of concentration to the relevant PRC regulatory authorities. If any of the above acquisitions is found to be in violation of the AML, the Notification Provisions or any other applicable laws and regulations, relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the MOFCOM, would have the discretion to cease the operation of the concentration, dispose of shares or assets, transfer the business of the concentration within a time limit, take any other necessary measures to restore the situation before the concentrations, and may impose a fine of less than RMB500,000. The imposition of any of these penalties would materially impair our ability to conduct our business and we may be forced to restructure our retail business, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, complying with the requirements and procedures of the above laws and regulations could make completion of mergers and acquisitions in China time-consuming, complex and difficult to complete, and there are uncertainties whether we will be able to obtain the clearance of prior notification from the MOFCOM for any acquisition triggering the AML and the Notification Provisions. This could delay or hinder our ability to complete future acquisitions and impede our strategy to grow through acquisitions. We rely on contractual arrangements with Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian, our consolidated variable interest entities, and their shareholders for the operation of our retail and e-commerce businesses in China. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as with our direct ownership. We rely on contractual arrangements with Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian, our consolidated variable interest entities, and their shareholders for the operation of our retail and e-commerce businesses in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions." These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian and their respective subsidiaries as direct ownership in these entities. If we had direct ownership of these entities, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the boards of directors of these entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level for these entities. However, if Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian or their respective shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may incur substantial costs and resources to enforce these arrangements, and rely on legal remedies available under applicable PRC laws, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages. In particular, if shareholders of a consolidated variable interest entity were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in such consolidated variable interest entity to us or our designated persons when we are able to exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may have to initiate legal actions to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in China. The legal environment in China is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over these operating entities and we may be precluded from operating our retail and e-commerce businesses, which would have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the applicable PRC authorities invalidate these contractual arrangements for violation of PRC laws, rules and regulations, any consolidated variable interest entity or its shareholders terminate the contractual arrangements or any consolidated variable interest entity or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, our retail and e-commerce businesses in China would be materially disrupted, and the value of our ordinary shares would decrease substantially. Furthermore, if we fail to renew these contractual arrangements upon their expiration and the relevant foreign investment restrictions remain effective, we would not be able to continue our retail and e-commerce businesses. 26 Table of Contents In addition, if any consolidated variable interest entity or all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our retail and e-commerce businesses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the consolidated variable interest entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets. The occurrence of any of these events may hinder our ability to operate our retail and e-commerce businesses, which could in turn materially harm our business and our ability to generate revenues and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. The principal shareholder of Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Mr. Dongping Fei, our chief executive officer and president, is also the principal shareholder of Beijing Funtalk, which wholly owns Beijing Dongdian. Both Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian are the consolidated variable interest entities that we effectively control through a series of contractual arrangements. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions" for a description of such contractual arrangements. As a result, conflicts of interest between Mr. Fei's duties to us and Beijing Funtalk or Beijing Dongdian may arise. We cannot assure you that should this occur, Mr. Fei would act in the best interests of us or that any conflict of interest would be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Fei may breach or cause Beijing Funtalk or Beijing Dongdian to breach or refuse to renew their existing contractual arrangements that allow us to exercise effective control over Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian and to receive economic benefits from Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian. The corporate laws of the Cayman Islands and China provide that directors owe a fiduciary duty to the company which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of the company and not to use their positions for personal gain. If Mr. Fei does not comply with his fiduciary duties, or if we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and Mr. Fei or any future beneficial owners of our variable interest entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings to remedy the situation, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. In addition, if any consolidated variable interest entity or all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our retail and e-commerce businesses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the consolidated variable interest entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets. The occurrence of any of these events may hinder our ability to operate our retail and e-commerce businesses, which could in turn materially harm our business and our ability to generate revenues and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. The principal shareholder of Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Mr. Dongping Fei, our chief executive officer and president, is also the principal shareholder of Beijing Funtalk, which wholly owns Beijing Dongdian. Both Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian are the consolidated variable interest entities that we effectively control through a series of contractual arrangements. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions" for a description of such contractual arrangements. As a result, conflicts of interest between Mr. Fei's duties to us and Beijing Funtalk or Beijing Dongdian may arise. We cannot assure you that should this occur, Mr. Fei would act in the best interests of us or that any conflict of interest would be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Fei may breach or cause Beijing Funtalk or Beijing Dongdian to breach or refuse to renew their existing contractual arrangements that allow us to exercise effective control over Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian and to receive economic benefits from Beijing Funtalk and Beijing Dongdian. The corporate laws of the Cayman Islands and China provide 27 Table of Contents that directors owe a fiduciary duty to the company which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of the company and not to use their positions for personal gain. If Mr. Fei does not comply with his fiduciary duties, or if we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and Mr. Fei or any future beneficial owners of our variable interest entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings to remedy the situation, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Contractual arrangements entered into among our subsidiaries, our consolidated variable interest entities and their shareholders may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that any of them owes additional PRC taxes could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. We are not able to determine whether any of our transactions with our consolidated variable interest entities and their shareholders will be regarded by the PRC tax authorities as arm's length transactions. To our knowledge, the PRC tax authorities have not issued a ruling or interpretation on how to determine an arm's length transaction in this context. The relevant tax authorities may determine that our contractual relationships with our consolidated variable interest entities and their shareholders were not entered into on an arm's length basis. If the PRC tax authorities determine that any of the transactions entered into among our subsidiaries, our consolidated variable interest entities, and their shareholders are not on an arm's length basis, or result in an impermissible reduction in taxes under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, the PRC tax authorities may adjust the income, expenses, profits and losses of such consolidated variable interest entities, which could in turn increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties for underpaid taxes. Our net income may be adversely affected if the tax liabilities of any of our subsidiaries and our consolidated variable interest entities increase or if any of these entities is found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. We principally rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and rely principally on dividends and other distributions from our operating subsidiaries in China and on service, license and other fees paid by our operating subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. Current PRC laws, rules and regulations permit our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other cash distributions to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profits each year, if any, to contribute to a statutory reserve fund until such cumulative reserve fund reaches 50% of the applicable company's registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, Pypo HK entered into the EUR 15 million FMO Facility in January 2009 which contains covenants restricting the ability of Pypo HK to pay dividends to us. See "—Restrictive covenants under our secured credit facility and any future indebtedness may limit the manner in which we operate and an event of default under our secured credit facility and any future indebtedness may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations." If our other operating subsidiaries incur debt, the instruments governing such debt may also restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements currently in place with our consolidated variable interest entities in a manner that would materially and adversely affect the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions to us. We believe that our existing cash will be sufficient to satisfy our 28 Table of Contents anticipated cash requirements without receiving any dividends from our operating subsidiaries. However, any increased limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our businesses. Our intercompany loans are not permissible under PRC laws. If PRC authorities enforce such laws, the PRC authorities may declare these loans void, require the forfeiture of any interest paid and levy fines or other penalties upon the parties involved. As of March 31, 2010, Funtalk PRC and its subsidiaries had made intercompany advances of $201.0 million to Beijing Funtalk to finance the operations of Beijing Funtalk and its subsidiaries. PRC laws generally do not permit companies that do not possess financial service business licenses to extend loans directly to other companies (including affiliates), without using a financial agency. None of our subsidiaries, variable interest entities and affiliates possesses such a financial service license nor proceeded through a financial agency when it extended loans to, or received loans from, its affiliates. However, PRC authorities have historically refrained from proactive enforcement of these restrictions, unless a dispute arises among the parties to such loans and the parties seek court proceedings to resolve the dispute. As such, we cannot predict how PRC government authorities will enforce these restrictions. If government authorities enforce these restrictions, such authorities may declare these loans void, require the forfeiture of any interest paid or levy fines or other penalty upon the parties involved, among other remedies and therefore materially and adversely affect our financial conditions. Risks Relating to Doing Business in the People's Republic of China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our business operations in China. Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal conditions in China. China's economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to government regulation and control of foreign exchange, the level of development, growth rate and the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented certain measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the PRC economy generally, they may also negatively affect us. For example, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing market-oriented reforms, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and improved corporate governance, the PRC government still owns a substantial portion of productive assets in China and continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. In addition, the PRC government exercises significant control over China's economic growth by controlling the allocation of resources and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and giving preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. In late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising bank reserves against deposit rates and placing additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans and raise interest rates, in an attempt to slow down specific segments of China's economy that the government believed to be overheating. In 2008, however, in response to the world economic crisis, the PRC government cut interest rates and announced a stimulus plan in an attempt to help sustain 29 Table of Contents growth. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital, as well as our ability to operate our business. Any health epidemics and other outbreaks, or war, acts of terrorism or other man-made or natural disasters could severely disrupt our business operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. In 2006 and 2007, occurrences of avian influenza were reported in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In April 2009, an outbreak of a new strain of influenza identified as the Influenza A (H1N1) virus occurred in Mexico resulting in a number of deaths. As the virus continues to spread worldwide including China, the World Health Organization on June 11, 2009 declared the H1N1 virus outbreak a global pandemic. The spread of H1N1 or any prolonged recurrence of avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could require the temporary closure of our offices or our retail outlets or prevent our staff from traveling to customers' offices to sell products or provide on-site services. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are also vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including snowstorms, earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. In January and February 2008, large portions of Southern and Central China were hit with a series of snowstorms, which caused extensive damage and transportation disruption. On May 12, 2008, a severe earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale occurred in Sichuan province of China, resulting in numerous casualties and severe property damage. If any disaster were to occur in the future, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is principally based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but typically have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign investments and domestic companies in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions (and the nonbinding nature of such decisions), the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations raise uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until after a violation occurs. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. It may be difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in the PRC. Because most of our officers and directors will reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us and/or our officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the United States. Also, because our executive officers will likely be residing in the PRC when a suit is initiated, achieving service of process against such persons would be difficult. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets will be located in the PRC, it may also be difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award 30 Table of Contents entered against us in a United States court. The PRC does not have treaties with the United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. Governmental control of foreign exchange markets in the PRC may affect the value of your investment, limit our ability to use revenue efficiently and restrict the abilities of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain financing. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC operating subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC operating subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or make other payments, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and of foreign currencies into RMB, for payments relating to "capital account transactions," which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency from us or other foreign lenders, they must do so within approved limits that satisfy their approval documentation and PRC debt to equity ratio requirements. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. In practice, it could be time-consuming to complete such SAFE registration process. If we finance our PRC subsidiaries through additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must be approved by MOFCOM or its local counterparts. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency-denominated capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency denominated capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB fund may not be changed without approval from SAFE or its local counterparts, and may not be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used for purposes within the company's approved business scope. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. We may not be able to transfer funds to our consolidated variable interest entities through our PRC subsidiaries, which may adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our retail business. In addition, the PRC government may also at its discretion restrict future access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the Chinese foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to shareholders or fulfill our foreign currency denominated obligations, which may adversely affect the value of your investment. 31 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB has been permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 19.7% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and July 8, 2010. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. In June 2010, the PRC government indicated that it would make the foreign exchange rate of the RMB more flexible, which increases the possibility of sharp fluctuations of RMB's value in the near future and thus unpredictability associated with RMB's exchange rate. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of our financial assets is also denominated in the RMB. Further, we rely principally on dividends and other distributions paid by our operating subsidiaries in China. Any significant revaluation of the RMB could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable with respect to, our shares in U.S. dollars. Any fluctuations of the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the currently effective EIT Law, which may subject us to PRC income tax on our taxable global income. On March 16, 2007, the Fifth Session of the Tenth National People's Congress passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the People's Republic of China, or the EIT Law. On November 28, 2007, the PRC State Council passed the Implementing Rules on the EIT Law, or the Implementing Rules. Both the EIT Law and the Implementing Rules became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as "resident enterprises" and "non-resident enterprises." Pursuant to the EIT Law and its Implementing Rules, enterprises established outside China whose "de facto management bodies" are located in China are considered "PRC tax resident enterprises" and subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on global income. According to the Implementing Rules, "de facto management body" refers to a managing body that in practice exercises overall management control over the production and business, personnel, accounting and assets of an enterprise. The EIT Law and the interpretation of many of its provisions, including the definition of "resident enterprise," are unclear. It is also uncertain how the PRC tax authorities would interpret and implement the EIT Law and its Implementing Rules. Generally, the PRC tax authorities may determine the resident enterprise status of entities organized under the laws of foreign jurisdictions, including us, on a case-by-case basis. We are a Cayman Islands holding company, and have a wholly owned subsidiary in the Cayman Islands, Pypo Cayman. Pypo Cayman owns a 100% equity interest in Pypo HK, which in turn owns a 100% equity interest in Funtalk PRC. Our management is substantially based in China and most of our management members are expected to be based in China in the future, while some of our directors and senior managers are not PRC nationals. It remains uncertain whether the PRC tax authorities would determine that we are a "resident enterprise" or a "non-resident enterprise." Given the short history of the EIT law and lack of applicable legal precedents, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign company like us. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a "resident enterprise" for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of tax consequences could follow. First, we could be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our global taxable income. Second, the EIT Law provides that dividend 32 Table of Contents income between "qualified resident enterprises" is exempt from income tax. It is unclear whether the dividends we receive from Funtalk PRC (through Pypo HK) constitute dividend income between "qualified resident enterprises" and would therefore qualify for tax exemption. If we are required to pay income tax on any dividends we receive from Funtalk PRC, the amount of dividends we could pay to our shareholders would be materially reduced. As of the date of this annual report, the PRC tax authorities have not been able to provide us with a definitive determination as to the "resident enterprise" or "non-resident enterprise" status of us. However, since it is not anticipated that any of FTLK, Pypo Cayman and Pypo HK would receive dividends from Funtalk PRC or generate other income in the near future, such companies are not expected to have any income that would be subject to the 25% enterprise income tax on global income in the near future. We will again consult with the PRC tax authorities and make any necessary tax payment if we (based on future clarifying guidance to be issued by the PRC authorities), or the PRC tax authorities, determine that we are a resident enterprise under the EIT Law, and if we were to have income in the future. Dividends we receive from subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are not treated as a "resident enterprise" under the EIT Law, then dividends that we receive from Funtalk PRC (through Pypo HK) may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law and its Implementing Rules provide that (A) an income tax rate of 25% will normally be applicable to investors that are "non-resident enterprises," or non-resident investors, which (i) have establishments or premises of business inside China, and (ii) the income in connection with their establishment or premises of business is sourced from China or the income is earned outside China but has actual connection with their establishments or places of business inside China, and (B) an income tax rate of 10% will normally be applicable to dividends payable to investors that are "non-resident enterprises," or non-resident investors, which (i) do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or (ii) have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. As described above, the PRC tax authorities may determine the resident enterprise status of entities organized under the laws of foreign jurisdictions, including us, on a case-by-case basis. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from Funtalk PRC (through Pypo HK). Thus, if we are considered as a "non-resident enterprise" under the EIT Law and the dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China are considered income sourced within China, such dividends received by us may be subject to the income tax described in the foregoing paragraph. The EIT Law and its Implementing Rules provide that China-sourced income of non-resident enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its overseas parent, may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless reduced or exempted under applicable treaties or PRC laws. Pursuant to the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement between the Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, or the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement, and the Notice on Certain Issues Concerning the Enforcement of Dividend Provisions under Tax Treaties, or Circular 81, which was issued on February 20, 2009 by the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise owns more than 25% of the equity interest in a company in China within 12 months immediately prior to receiving dividend from such company, the 10% withholding tax on the dividends the Hong Kong resident enterprise received from such company in China may be reduced to 5%. We are a Cayman Islands holding company, and have a subsidiary in Hong Kong, Pypo HK, which in turn owns a 100% equity interest in Funtalk PRC. If Pypo HK is considered as a Hong Kong resident enterprise under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement and is considered as a "non-resident enterprise" under the EIT Law and its Implementing Rules, the dividends paid to Pypo HK by Funtalk 33 Table of Contents PRC may be subject to the reduced tax rate of 5% under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement. However, based on the Circular 81, if the relevant PRC tax authorities determine, in their discretion, that a company benefits from such reduced income tax rate due to a structure or arrangement that is primarily tax-driven, such PRC tax authorities may adjust the preferential tax treatment; and based on the Notice On the Interpretation and Recognition of "Beneficial Owner" under Tax Treaties issued on October 27, 2009 by SAT, conduit companies, which are established for the purpose of evading or reducing tax, transferring or accumulating profits, are not deemed as beneficial owner and thus are not entitled to the abovementioned reduced income tax rate of 5% under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement. In addition, the SAT issued the Measures for Non-Residents Enjoying Tax Treaty Benefits (Trial), on August 24, 2009, which became effective on October 1, 2009. Pursuant to the above laws and rules, the non-resident enterprises may enjoy the preferential tax treatment subject to the approval by or a filing with the relevant tax authorities. As of the date of this annual report, the PRC tax authorities have not been able to provide us with a definitive determination as to the "resident enterprise" or "non-resident enterprise" status of us. As indicated above, however, Funtalk PRC does not expect to pay any dividends in the near future. We will again consult with the PRC tax authorities and make any necessary tax withholding if, in the future, Funtalk PRC were to pay any dividends and we (based on future clarifying guidance to be issued by the PRC authorities), or the PRC tax authorities, determine that we are a non-resident enterprise under the EIT Law. Dividends that shareholders receive from us, and any gain on the sale or transfer of our shares, may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. If dividends payable to (or gains recognized by) shareholders by us are treated as income derived from sources within the PRC, then the dividends that shareholders receive from us, and any gain on the sale or transfer of our shares, may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and its Implementing Rules, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are "non-resident enterprises," or non-resident investors, which (i) do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or (ii) have an establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. The dividends paid by us to non-resident investors with respect to their respective shares, or gain non-resident investors may realize from the transfer of our shares, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and, as a result, may be subject to PRC tax at a rate of 10%. In such event, we also may be required to withhold a 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to non-resident investors. In addition, our non-resident investors may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the transfer of our shares if such non-resident investors and the gain satisfy the requirements under the EIT Law and its Implementing Rules. However, under the EIT Law and its Implementing Rules, we would not have an obligation to withhold income tax in respect of the gains that non-resident investors (including U.S. investors) may realize from the transfer of their shares. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-resident investors that are "non-resident enterprises," or if such non-resident investors are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares, any investment in us may be materially adversely affected. If any such PRC taxes apply, you may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty or a foreign tax credit against your domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). You should consult with your tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. In the case of a U.S. Holder, as defined in the section entitled "Item 10. Additional Information— 34 Table of Contents E. Taxation—Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," if PRC taxes apply to dividends paid on our ordinary shares, or to gain from the disposition of our ordinary shares, such taxes may be treated as foreign taxes eligible for credit against such holder's United States federal income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations), and the U.S. Holder may be entitled to certain benefits under the income tax treaty between the United States and the PRC, if such holder is considered a resident of the United States for the purposes of the treaty. See "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation- Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations." U.S. Holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the creditability of any PRC taxes and such U.S. Holder's eligibility for the benefits of the income tax treaty between the United States and the PRC. If we were to pay any dividends in the future, we would again consult with the PRC tax authorities and if we (based on future clarifying guidance issued by the PRC), or the PRC tax authorities, determine that we must withhold PRC tax on any dividends payable by us under the EIT Law, we will make any necessary tax withholding on dividends payable to our non-resident investors. If non-resident investors as described under the EIT Law (including U.S. investors) realized any gain from the sale or transfer of our shares and if such gain were considered as PRC-sourced income, such non-resident investors would be responsible for paying 10% PRC income tax on the sale or transfer of our shares. Although the applicability of PRC taxes on the gain from the sale or transfer of our shares remains uncertain, non-resident investors who fail to pay any PRC taxes due on any gain from the sale or transfer of our shares may be subject to fines and other penalties. It remains unclear whether the gain to shareholders from the sale or transfer of our shares will be subject to PRC taxes, in part because it is unclear whether such gain will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC. However, according to the EIT Law and its Implementing Rules, the PRC Tax Collection Administration Law, or the Tax Administration Law, the Interim Measures on Administration of Withholding the Source of Income Tax of Non-resident Enterprises, or the Administration Measures, and other applicable PRC laws or regulations, or collectively, the Tax Related Laws, where any gain derived by non-resident investors from the transfer of our shares is subject to any income tax in China, and such non-resident investors fail to file any tax return or pay tax in this regard pursuant to the Tax Related Laws, they may be subject to certain fines, penalties or punishments, including without limitation: •if a non-resident investor fails to file a tax return and present the relevant information in connection with tax payments, the competent tax authorities shall order such investor to do so within the prescribed time limit and may impose a fine up to RMB 2,000, and in egregious cases, may impose a fine ranging from RMB 2,000 to RMB 10,000; •if a non-resident investor fails to file a tax return or fails to pay all or part of the amount of tax payable, the non-resident investor shall be required to pay the unpaid tax amount payable, a surcharge on overdue tax payments (the daily surcharge is 0.05% of the overdue amount, beginning from the day the deferral begins), and a fine ranging from 50% to 500% of the unpaid amount of the tax payable; •if a non-resident investor fails to file a tax return or pay the tax within the prescribed time limit according to the order by the PRC tax authorities, the PRC tax authorities may collect and check information about the income items of the non-resident investor in China and other payers, or the Other Payers, who will pay amounts to such non-resident investor, and send a "Notice of Tax Issues" to the Other Payers to collect and recover the tax payable and impose overdue fines on such non-resident investor from the amounts otherwise payable to such non-resident investor by the Other Payers; •if a non-resident investor fails to pay the tax payable within the prescribed time limit as ordered by the PRC tax authorities, a fine may be imposed on the non-resident investor ranging from 35 Table of Contents 50% to 500% of the unpaid tax payable; and the PRC tax authorities may, upon approval by the director of the tax bureau (or sub-bureau) of, or higher than, the county level, take the following compulsory measures: (i) notify in writing the non-resident investor's bank or other financial institution to withhold from the account thereof for payment of the amount of tax payable, and (ii) detain, seal off or sell by auction or on the market the non-resident investor's commodities, goods or other property in a value equivalent to the amount of tax payable; or •if the non-resident investor fails to pay all or part of the amount of tax payable or surcharge for overdue tax payment, and cannot provide a guarantee to the tax authorities, the tax authorities may notify the frontier authorities to prevent the non-resident investor or its legal representative from leaving China. PRC regulation of loans to and direct investment by offshore holding companies in PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business. As an offshore holding company, we may make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. Any loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries are subject to restrictions or approvals under PRC laws, rules and regulations. For example, loans by us to our operating subsidiaries in China, which are foreign-invested enterprises, to finance their activities may not exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the local SAFE branch. We may also decide to finance our PRC operating subsidiaries by making additional capital contributions to such entities. The MOFCOM or its local counterparts must approve these capital contributions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to any such capital contributions. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of any equity or debt offerings to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose vehicles by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders or us to penalties and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC operating subsidiaries, limit our PRC operating subsidiaries' ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or Circular 75, requiring PRC residents, whether legal persons or individuals, to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an "offshore SPV." Under Circular 75, the term "PRC resident legal persons" refers to those entities with legal person status or other economic organizations established within the territory of the PRC, while the term "PRC individual residents" includes (i) all PRC citizens (also including PRC citizens living abroad) and (ii) foreigners who habitually reside in the PRC for economic benefit. In addition, any PRC resident that is a shareholder of an offshore SPV is required to amend its SAFE registration with respect to that offshore SPV in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China or other material changes in share capital of the offshore SPV. In 2009, the SAFE issued an internal notice to its local branches on the operating rules with respect to the administration of foreign exchange under capital accounts. This internal notice provides for detailed operating processes and specific instructions for the SAFE registration under Circular 75. 36 Table of Contents We have requested our current shareholders and/or beneficial owners to disclose whether they or their shareholders or beneficial owners fall within the scope of the Circular 75 and the internal notice and urges PRC resident shareholders and beneficial owners to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the Circular 75 and the internal notice. Mr. Dongping Fei, Mr. Hengyang Zhou and Ms. Nana Gong, three of our PRC resident shareholders, have informed us of their SAFE registrations in accordance with Circular 75 and the internal notice. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents, and we may not always be able to compel our shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with the Circular 75 and the internal notice requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents will at all times comply with, or in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75 and the internal notice or other regulations that may be promulgated in the future. The failure of our shareholders and/or beneficial owners to timely finish or amend their SAFE registrations pursuant to the Circular 75 and the internal notice or the failure of our future shareholders and/or beneficial owners who are PRC residents to comply with the registration requirement set forth in the Circular 75 and the internal notice may subject such shareholders, beneficial owners and/or our PRC operating subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions. Any such failure may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute dividends to us or otherwise adversely affect our business. The approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission may be required in connection with the Business Combination under PRC M&A regulation. The M&A regulation also established more complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors that could make it more difficult for us to grow through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies—MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the SAT, the SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and SAFE—jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Regulation, which became effective on September 8, 2006, as amended on June 22, 2009, to regulate foreign investment in PRC domestic enterprises. The M&A Regulation contains provisions purporting, among other things, to require SPVs that are (1) formed for the purpose of overseas listing of equity interests in PRC companies via acquisition, and (2) directly or indirectly controlled by PRC companies and/or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of their securities on overseas stock exchanges. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published a notice on its website specifying the documents and materials that SPVs are required to submit when seeking the CSRC approval for their listings outside of China, or the CSRC Procedure. As of the date of this annual report, the CSRC has not issued any definitive rule or interpretation concerning whether transactions like the Business Combination are subject to this new procedure. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, CSRC approval was not required for the Business Combination, because: •the restructuring of Funtalk PRC from a domestic company to a Sino-foreign joint venture company was completed in June 2006, before the M&A Regulation became effective; •the restructuring of Funtalk PRC from a Sino-foreign joint venture company to a wholly foreign owned enterprise (which was completed in July 2007) is governed under PRC regulations related to changes in equity interest of investors in foreign investment enterprises rather than the M&A Regulation (which only applies to the acquisition of domestic PRC companies); and •the Business Combination was between offshore companies, and the CSRC currently has not issued any definitive rule concerning whether such transactions are subject to the M&A Regulation and CSRC Procedure. 37 Table of Contents Accordingly, we did not take steps to obtain approval from the CSRC for the Business Combination. However, the interpretation and application of the M&A Regulation remain unclear, and PRC government authorities have the sole discretion to determine whether the Business Combination was subject to the approval of the CSRC. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for the Business Combination, we may need to apply for a remedial approval from the CSRC and may be subject to certain administrative or other sanctions from these regulatory agencies. Further, new rules and regulations or relevant interpretations may be issued from time to time that may require us to obtain retroactive approval from the CSRC in connection with the Business Combination. If this were to occur, our failure to obtain or delay in obtaining the CSRC approval for the Business Combination would subject us to sanctions imposed by the CSRC and other PRC regulatory agencies. These sanctions could include fines and penalties on our operations in China, restrictions or limitations on our ability to pay dividends outside of China, and other forms of sanctions that may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The M&A Regulation also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities in China by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if either threshold under the Notification Provisions is triggered. These rules may also require the approval from the MOFCOM where overseas companies established or controlled by PRC enterprises or residents acquire affiliated domestic companies. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Regulation to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including MOFCOM approval, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business. A failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration of employee share options held by our employees who are PRC citizens may subject such employees or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. The Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Citizen Participating in the Employee Share Ownership Plan or Share Option Plan of Offshore Listed Companies, or Circular 78, regulate the foreign exchange matters associated with the employee share option plans granted to PRC citizens by companies whose shares are listed on overseas stock exchanges. PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by companies listed on overseas stock exchanges based on employee share options or share incentive plans are required to register with the SAFE or its local counterparts. Pursuant to Circular 78, PRC citizens participating in the employee share option plans of the offshore listed companies shall entrust a PRC agent from any subsidiary of such offshore listed companies in China, the labor union of such subsidiary with legal person status or trust investment company with asset custody business qualification to handle various foreign exchange matters associated with their employee share options plans. The PRC agents or the employers shall, on behalf of the PRC citizens who have the right to exercise the employee share options, apply annually to SAFE or its local counterparts for a quota for the conversion and/or payment of foreign currencies in connection with the PRC citizens' exercise of the employee share options. The foreign exchange proceeds received by the PRC citizens from sale of shares under the share option plans granted by the overseas listed companies must be remitted into the bank accounts in China opened by their employers or PRC agents. As of July 8, 2010, we have granted options to purchase 1,571,114 ordinary shares to our directors, executives and employees who are PRC citizens and are in the process of registering such option grants with the SAFE or its local counterparts. The failure of our PRC share options holders to complete 38 Table of Contents their registration pursuant to Circular 78 and other foreign exchange requirements may subject these PRC citizens or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Further, a notice concerning the individual income tax on earnings from employee stock options, jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance, or MOF, and the SAT, and its supplementary notice issued by the SAT, provide that listed companies (including listed on onshore or overseas stock exchange markets) that implement employee share option programs shall file the employee share option plans and other relevant documents to the local tax authorities having jurisdiction over them before implementing such employee share option plans and file share option exercise notices and other relevant documents to the local tax authorities having jurisdiction over them before exercise by the employees of the share options, and clarify whether the shares issuable under the employee share options mentioned in the notice are the shares of publicly listed companies. We are currently in the process of filing our share option plan with the competent tax authority. Under the current rules and regulations, the consequence of a late filing is unclear. We may be subject to any late filing fees or tax penalties. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits may adversely affect our business and results of operations and substantially increase our labor-related costs. As we conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities in China, we are subject to PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented policies to strengthen the protection of employees and obligate employers to provide more benefits to their employees. The PRC Employment Contract Law and the Employment Contract Regulation, both of which became effective in 2008, require more benefits to be provided to employees, such as an increase in pay or compensation for termination of employment contracts. In addition, the Employment Contract Law and the Employment Contract Regulation contain provisions that are more favorable to employees than the prior labor laws and regulations in China. For example, an employer is obligated to compensate an employee if the employer decides not to renew an existing employment contract, unless the employee refuses the employer's offer to renew the expiring employment contract with the same or better terms. In addition, an employer is obligated to provide an open-ended employment contract after an employee has completed two consecutive terms of fixed-term employment, under which the employer will be liable to pay damages to an employee if the employer terminates the employment without cause, until the employee reaches an age at which he or she is eligible for pension payment. As a result of the implementation of the Employment Contract Law and the Employment Contract Regulation, we may have greater difficulty terminating under-performing employees and may incur higher levels of labor costs in order to comply with the provisions of the new law and regulation, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be in compliance with PRC social insurance and housing fund laws and regulations which may subject us to fines and legal sanctions. Our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities are subject to various social insurance and housing fund laws and regulations in the PRC such as the Regulation of Insurance for Labor Injury, the Regulation of Insurance for Unemployment, the Provisional Insurance Measures for Maternity of Employees, Interim Provisions on Registration of Social Insurance, Interim Regulation on the Collection and Payment of Social Insurance Premiums, Regulations on Management of Housing Fund and other related regulations, rules and provisions issued by the relevant PRC governmental authorities from time to time. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, all of our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities are required to obtain and renew social insurance registration certificates and housing fund certificates and make contributions to the social insurance and housing funds for our PRC employees. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations would subject our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities to various fines and legal sanctions and they may be required to make supplemental contributions to the social insurance and housing funds 39 Table of Contents Some of our PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities, as well as their respective operating branches, did not obtain or renew the social insurance registration certificate and housing fund certificate and did not make enough social insurance and housing fund contributions for our PRC employees according to the above laws and regulations. If the relevant PRC authorities determine that we shall make supplemental social insurance and housing fund contributions and subject to fines and legal sanctions, our business and results of operations may be adversely affect. Risks Relating to Our Securities The market price for our securities may be volatile. The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices have been and continue to be extremely volatile. The market price for our securities has been, and is expected to continue to be, be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; •changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; •conditions in the markets for mobile communications products; •changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies specializing in retail and wholesale distribution of mobile communications products; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •addition or departure of our senior management and key personnel; and •fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar. Volatility in the price of our securities may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company's securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. We may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares. Under Cayman Islands law, we may only pay dividends out of our profits or our share premium account subject to our ability to service our debts as they become due in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore depend on our ability to generate sufficient profits. We cannot give any assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, payment to us of cash dividends by our subsidiaries, capital needs, future prospects and other factors that our directors may deem appropriate. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, shareholders will benefit from an investment in our ordinary shares only if those shares appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the 40 Table of Contents terms of our credit facilities, if any, and any other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on shareholders' investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our ordinary shares, and there is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. In connection with the Business Combination, certain executive officers and certain shareholders agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer or dispose of any of our ordinary shares for a period of 12 months or 24 months following July 9, 2009. After the expiration of the applicable lock-up periods, the shares held by these holders may be sold subject to volume and other restrictions under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. To the extent these shares are released and these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. If our outstanding Class A Warrants, Class B Redeemable Warrants and unit purchase options are exercised, the underlying ordinary shares will be eligible for future resale in the public market, which would result in dilution and may reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. Our Class A warrants, Class B redeemable warrants and unit purchase options to purchase an aggregate of 9,177,355 ordinary shares became exercisable upon the consummation of the Business Combination. If they are exercised, a substantial number of additional ordinary shares of ours will be eligible for resale in the public market, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our ordinary shares. As of July 8, 2010, an aggregate of 53,850 ordinary shares were issued upon exercise of Class A warrants and Class B redeemable warrants. An effective registration statement may not be in place when a holder of Class A or Class B warrants desires to exercise the warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless, because we are not required to net cash settle any warrant exercise. No Class A or Class B warrant held by public stockholders or issuable upon exercise of the unit purchase options by holders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current. Under the terms of the Class A and Class B warrant agreements, as amended, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the Class A or Class B warrants until the expiration of the Class A or Class B warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the Class A or Class B warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their Class A or Class B warrants and we will not be required to net cash settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Class A or Class B warrants is not current, the Class A or Class B warrants held by public stockholders or issuable upon exercise of the unit purchase options by holders may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited and such warrants may expire worthless. If the holders of the unit purchase options are unable to exercise the warrants, the result is that the holders will have paid the full purchase price for the unit solely for the shares included in the unit. 41 Table of Contents We may need additional capital and the sale of additional ordinary shares or other equity securities by us could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our existing cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional ordinary shares or other equity securities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. 