ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures and increasing unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. The U.S. Department of the Treasury created the Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, pursuant to which the Treasury Department provided additional capital to participating financial institutions through the purchase of preferred stock or other securities. Other measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; regulatory action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful in restoring industry, economic or market conditions to their previous levels and that they will not result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including Ocean Shore Holding, are numerous and include (1) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (2) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (3) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (4) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (5) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. The current economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy has recently experienced general economic downturns, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. At the onset of the national downturn, New Jersey and our local market area did not experience a significant downturn. However, as the downturn has persisted, our local economy is mirroring the overall economy. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in Atlantic or Cape May Counties in New Jersey. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy, which is heavily dependent on the gaming and tourism industries, could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would hurt our revenues. 17 Table of Contents Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2009, $521.4 million, or 78.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, and $60.7 million, or 9.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Because of our location on the South Jersey shore, many of the properties securing our residential mortgages are second homes or rental properties. At December 31, 2009, 40.0% of our one- to four-family mortgage loans were secured by second homes and 10.4% were secured by rental properties. These loans generally are considered to be more risky than loans secured by the borrower’s permanent residence, since the borrower is typically dependent upon rental income to meet debt service requirements, in the case of a rental property, and when in financial difficulty is more likely to make payments on the loan secured by the borrower’s primary residence before a vacation home. Commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2009, $75.6 million, or 11.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, commercial construction loans and commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The recent decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss provisions in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the Office of Thrift Supervision after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 0.52% of total loans outstanding and 188.4% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2009. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2009, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. 18 Table of Contents If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment throughout the year. Each investment that has a fair value less than book value is reviewed on a quarterly basis. An impairment charge is recorded against individual securities if management’s review concludes that the decline in value is other than temporary. As of December 31, 2009, our investment portfolio included eight corporate debt securities with a book value of $8.2 million and an estimated fair value of $5.7 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down the value of these securities. At December 31, 2009, we had an investment of $6.1 million in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding of Federal Home Loan Bank stock may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounted to 5 basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. In lieu of imposing additional special assessments, the FDIC required that all institutions prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The estimated assessments, which include an assumed annual assessment base increase of 5%, were recorded as a prepaid expense asset as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, and each quarter thereafter, a charge to earnings will be recorded for each regular assessment with an offsetting credit to the prepaid asset. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest spread is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest spread and, as a result, our net interest income and net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed rate residential loan portfolio will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield 19 Table of Contents curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program will hurt our earnings. As part of its regulatory initiatives to restore confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system, the FDIC implemented the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”). As part of the TLGP, the FDIC will guaranty certain newly issued senior unsecured debt of certain financial institutions issued on or before October 31, 2009. In addition, the FDIC will also provide full coverage of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts until June 30, 2010. Eligible entities that did not opt out of participation in TLGP were automatically considered participants in the program. Ocean City Home Bank and Ocean Shore Holding are participants in the TLGP. Participants in the deposit portion of the TLGP are assessed, on a quarterly basis, an annualized fee of 10 basis points on balances of non-interest bearing transaction accounts that exceed the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. Beginning January 1, 2010, the fee increased to 15 basis points for most institutions. These additional deposit insurance assessments will reduce our earnings. Participants issuing debt under the TLGP will be charged an annualized fee based on the amount and term of the debt issued. Ocean Shore Holding did not issue any FDIC-guaranteed debt under the TLGP. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2009, which is the most recent date for which information is available, we held 6.37% of the deposits in Atlantic County, New Jersey, which was the 7th largest share of deposits out of 16 financial institutions with offices in the county, and 8.27% of the deposits in Cape May County, New Jersey, which was the 6th largest share of deposits out of 14 financial institutions with offices in the county. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as our insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Ocean City Home Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The Obama Administration has published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system and has offered proposed legislation to accomplish these reforms. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on 20 Table of Contents Ocean Shore Holding and Ocean City Home Bank. Under the proposed legislation, the federal thrift charter and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution must register as a bank holding company. Existing federal thrifts, such as Ocean City Home Bank, would become a national bank or could choose to adopt a state charter. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The Administration has also proposed the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 