Item 1A. Risk Factors.On September 22, 2014, our Board of Directors approved our New Investment Objective. Our New Investment Objective involves a number of significant risks discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us might also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.Risks Related to Investments We may not be successful in implementing our New Investment Strategy, or it may take longer to implement our New Investment Strategy than anticipated. We may not be successful in implementing our New Investment Strategy due to the limitations on the amount we can currently invest in any new portfolio company. We compete for debt investments under our New Investment Strategy with other investment funds, BDCs, investment banks, hedge funds, commercial banks and finance companies. Most of these competitors are substantially larger, have considerably greater financial resources than we do, may have a lower cost of funds as well as access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. Due to the limitations on the size of our debt investments and the competition in the debt markets serving the Growth Companies that we target, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make debt investments that are consistent with our New Investment Objective. We may may need to focus more on investments in earlier stage companies that may have no or nominal tangible collateral in order to obtain the pricing terms that we seek. As we transition our portfolio under our New Investment Objective, we expect to generate current income and for current income to comprise a source of return for our stockholders over time. However, if we are unable to successfully transition to our New Investment Strategy, or it takes longer to implement our New Investment Strategy, our current income from debt investments may not exceed our annual operating expenses and, in such event, 14Table of Contentswe may not be able to pay distributions representing earnings from net investment income. While subject to change due to various factors and our ability to successfully originate debt investment under our New Investment Strategy, we currently believe that our transformation to a portfolio that generates net investment income will not be completed until year-end 2016, at the earliest. Furthermore, if we are unable to successfully transition to our New Investment Strategy in a timely manner, we may be unable to increase our capital base and otherwise achieve the economies of scale we believe are necessary to provide our stockholders with an attractive return. Based on our return aspirations as well as our current capital and investment size limitations, our investment adviser believes that we will likely need to invest in earlier stage, higher risk companies. Due to regulatory constraints, we can only make investments of a relatively small size at this time. Given this restriction, we may have limited opportunities to make investments in Growth Companies that meet our investment criteria and under terms acceptable to us. Under our New Investment Objective, we intend to primarily make debt investments in privately held Growth Companies across various stages of development, including early, later and growth stage companies, more established companies and lower middle market companies. It has been our experience that the later and growth stage companies that we may target, which are typically backed by one or more venture capital firms, are generally seeking to borrow from a single lender in amounts that are larger than the maximum investment we can make given the size of our capital base and the need to satisfy diversification requirements in order to maintain our RIC status. In addition, it has been our experience that competition for these later and growth stage company investments from other lenders often leads to terms and pricing that our investment adviser does not believe adequately compensates us for the risk. With our current capital and investment size limitations, our investment adviser believes that we may need to focus more on investments in earlier stage companies which may have higher risks. While we have experience with equity investments in later and growth stage companies, we do not have significant experience with investments in earlier stage companies.A lack of IPO or strategic sale/merger opportunities may cause our existing portfolio companies to stay in our portfolio longer, leading to lower returns, unrealized depreciation, or realized losses on our pre-IPO equity investments.A typical "liquidity event" for our pre-IPO equity investments may be an IPO or a strategic sale/merger. We currently hold investments in eleven private portfolio companies under our former pre-IPO investment strategy. A lack of IPO or strategic sale/merger opportunities for our pre-IPO equity investments could lead to companies remaining in our portfolio as private entities still requiring funding. This situation could lead to unrealized depreciation and realized losses as some companies run short of cash and have to accept lower valuations in private financings or are not able to access additional capital at all. A lack of IPO or strategic sale/merger opportunities for our pre-IPO equity investments could also cause some financial sponsors to change their strategies, leading some of them to reduce funding of their portfolio companies and making it more difficult for such companies to access capital and to fulfill their potential, which can result in unrealized depreciation and realized losses in such companies by other capital providers including us. In the event our existing portfolio companies experience a delay in completing an IPO or strategic sale/merger or we are unable to generate capital gains on the disposition of our pre-IPO equity investments either following our contractual lock-up period in the case of an IPO or upon a strategic sale/merger, we may have no or limited capital gains from which to pay distributions to our stockholders. Because the pre-IPO portfolio company equity securities that we acquired under our former investment strategy are typically illiquid until an IPO or sale/merger of the company, we generally cannot predict the regularity and time periods between sales of these equity investments and the realizations of capital gains, if any, from such sales. Since we do not expect to generate current income from our pre-IPO portfolio company equity investments, and until we can successfully transition to our New Investment Strategy, our annual operating expenses will be financed primarily from our capital base during periods of time between realizations of capital gains on our equity investments. Our New Investment Strategy focuses on debt investments in Growth Companies in growth industries, which are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, current operating losses, shortened product life cycles and periodic downturns, and would be rated below "investment grade."Under our New Investment Objective, we intend to invest primarily in Growth Companies in industries that we believe are poised to grow at above-average rates relative to other sectors, which may have relatively limited operating histories and may be particularly vulnerable to U.S. and foreign economic downturns. Many of these companies will have narrow product lines and small market shares, compared to larger established publicly owned firms, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. Most of these portfolio companies will experience operating losses, which may be substantial, and there can be no assurance when or if such companies will operate at a profit. Many of the companies we target for investment have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, will have a weaker financial position and will need additional capital to expand or complete their business plans. They may face intense competition, including from larger, more established companies with greater financial, technical and marketing resources. These companies generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. The revenues, income (or losses) 15Table of Contentsand valuations of these companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. For these reasons, debt investments in portfolio companies under our New Investment Strategy, if rated by one or more ratings agencies, would typically be rated below "investment grade," which refers to securities rated by ratings agencies below the four highest rating categories. In addition, the growth industries that we intend to target under our New Investment Strategy including, but not limited to, technology, healthcare, life sciences and energy, are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition, and the competitive environment can change abruptly due to rapidly evolving technology. Therefore, these portfolio companies may face considerably more risk than companies in other industry sectors. Accordingly, these factors could impair their cash flow or result in other events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit their ability to repay their obligations to us and may materially adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investments in these businesses.Because of rapid technological change, the average selling prices of products and some services provided by the companies that we intend to target may decrease with corresponding rapid speed over their productive lives. These decreases could adversely affect their operating results and cash flow, their ability to meet obligations under their debt securities and the value of their equity securities. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Debt investments involve risk and we could lose all or part of our investment.Investing in debt investments involves a number of significant risks. Below investment grade debt investments have historically experienced greater default rates than has been the case for investment grade securities. We intend to achieve our New Investment Objective by investing in a portfolio of debt investments, both secured and unsecured, that are rated below investment grade by rating agencies, or that would be rated below investment grade if they were rated. Below investment grade securities have predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. They may also be illiquid and difficult to value. There can be no assurance as to the levels of defaults or recoveries that may be experienced on our debt investments. The debt investments which we intend to make may be issued by companies with limited financial resources and limited access to alternative financing. Issuers of secured and unsecured debt may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of collateral, if any, backing our investments. This could lead to a decline in value of our debt investments, which could result in a decline in our net earnings and NAV.As part of our New Investment Strategy, if our investment adviser deems appropriate, we may also invest in more liquid secured debt of U.S.-based Growth Companies that are traded in private over-the-counter markets. We may also use borrowings to purchase these over-the-counter securities. While we intend to make debt investments in Growth Companies across various stages of development, we generally require that prospective portfolio companies be beyond the seed stage of development and generally have received or anticipate having commitments for their first round of institutional venture capital or private equity financing before we will consider making an investment. A debt investment in later stage or more established companies typically bears lower credit risk and correspondingly offers lower yields compared to earlier stage companies or companies without a financial sponsor. As a result, our debt investments could result in a lower distribution rate than distribution rates of comparable BDCs which make debt investments in earlier stage companies. Our secured and unsecured debt investments, like an investment in any debt instrument, are a function of the credit risk associated with the borrower. Credit risk is the risk that a borrower will fail to make principal and interest payments when due or otherwise default on the terms of the debt instrument. Borrowers with higher credit risk typically offer higher yields to compensate for this added risk of default. Conversely, borrowers with lower credit risk typically offer lower yields. Therefore, under normal market conditions, an investment in secured or unsecured debt of a borrower with a higher credit risk will generate a higher yield to the investor, assuming the borrower makes all required interest and principal payments in a timely manner and according to the terms of the debt instrument.We intend to make both secured and unsecured debt investments in growth companies across various stages of development, however, we generally require that prospective portfolio companies be beyond the seed stage of development and generally have received or anticipate having commitments for their first round of institutional venture capital or private equity financing before we will consider making an investment. We also expect a prospective portfolio company to demonstrate its ability to advance its technology and product development and a path towards revenue generation or increase its revenues and operating cash flow over time. These types of companies typically have lower credit risk and a correspondingly lower yield. Lower yields from our debt investments could therefore result in a lower distribution rate to our stockholders than the distribution rates of other BDCs that make, or may in the future make, investments in primarily or exclusively earlier stage companies or companies without a financial sponsor. As a result, an investment in us may result in a lower return than an investment in other BDCs.It is unclear how increased regulatory oversight and changes in the method for determining the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, may affect the value of the financial obligations to be held or issued by us that are linked to LIBOR, or how such changes could affect our results of operations or financial condition.As a result of concerns about the accuracy of the calculation of LIBOR, a number of British Bankers’ Association, or BBA, member banks entered into settlements with certain regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to the alleged 16Table of Contentsmanipulation of LIBOR, and there are ongoing investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions. Following a review of LIBOR conducted at the request of the U.K. government, on September 28, 2012, recommendations for reforming the setting and governing of LIBOR or the Wheatley Review, were released. The Wheatley Review made a number of recommendations for changes with respect to LIBOR, including additional statutory regulation of LIBOR, the transfer of responsibility for LIBOR from the BBA to an independent administrator, changes to the method of the compilation of lending rates and new regulatory oversight and enforcement mechanisms for rate setting and a reduction in the number of currencies and tenors for which LIBOR is published. Based on the Wheatley Review and on a subsequent public and governmental consultation process, on March 25, 2013, the U.K. Financial Services Authority published final rules for the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority’s regulation and supervision of LIBOR, or the FCA Rules. In particular, the FCA Rules include requirements that (1) an independent LIBOR administrator monitor and survey LIBOR submissions to identify breaches of practice standards or potentially manipulative behavior, and (2) firms submitting data to LIBOR establish and maintain a clear conflicts of interest policy and appropriate systems and controls. The FCA Rules took effect on April 2, 2013. It is uncertain what additional regulatory changes or what changes, if any, in the method of determining LIBOR may be required or made by the U.K. government or other governmental or regulatory authorities. Accordingly, uncertainty as to the nature of such changes may adversely affect the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for or value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to us or on our overall financial condition or results of operations.An investment strategy focused primarily on private Growth Companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies, a dependence on the talents and efforts of only a few key personnel at a given portfolio company, a lack of a diversified product line, a dependence on several key customers and a greater vulnerability to economic downturns.Under our New Investment Strategy, we intend to invest primarily in private Growth Companies across various stages of development. Generally, at the time of our investment, there is little publicly available information about these businesses since they are primarily privately owned. Therefore, although our investment adviser’s representatives will perform due diligence investigations on these portfolio companies, their operations and their prospects, we may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses. At the time of our investment, we may only have access to the portfolio company’s actual financial results as of and for the most recent quarter end or, in certain cases, the quarter end preceding the most recent quarter end. In addition, we may be relying on financial statements from a prior year-end which have not been audited. There can be no assurance that the information that we do obtain with respect to any investment is reliable. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Also, privately held companies frequently have less diverse product lines, dependence on a few key customers and a smaller market presence than larger competitors. Thus, they are generally more vulnerable to economic downturns and a dependence on a few key sources of revenue and may experience substantial variations in operating results. These factors could affect our investment returns.In addition, our success depends, in large part, upon the abilities of the key management personnel of our portfolio companies, who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our portfolio companies. Competition for qualified personnel is intense at any stage of a company’s development, particularly so in the growth industries in which we intend to invest. The loss of one or more key managers can hinder or delay a company’s implementation of its business plan and harm its financial condition. Our portfolio companies may not be able to attract and retain qualified managers and personnel. Any inability to do so may negatively affect our investment returns.We expect our investments to be concentrated in certain industries and in a limited number of companies, which subjects us to the risk of significant loss if any of these companies default on their obligations under any of their debt securities that we hold, or if any of the industry sectors experience a downturn.We intend to invest in a limited number of companies. As a consequence of this limited number of investments, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond the asset diversification requirements to which we will be subject as a RIC, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification or limitations on the size of our investments in any one portfolio company and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few issuers. In addition, we intend to invest primarily in Growth Companies, including those in technology, healthcare, life sciences, energy and other industries with above-average rates of growth, at various stages of development. As a result, a downturn in industry sectors and particularly those in which we are heavily concentrated could materially adversely affect our financial condition.17Table of ContentsOur financial results could be negatively affected if a significant portfolio investment fails to perform as expected.Our total investment in companies may be significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if a significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform as expected, our financial results could be more negatively affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant than if we had made smaller investments in more companies. We cannot assure you that any of our investments in our portfolio companies will be successful. There can be no assurance as to the levels of defaults or recoveries that may be experienced on our debt investments. The secured and unsecured debt in which we invest may be issued by companies with limited financial resources and limited access to alternative financing. Issuers of debt may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold. Such developments may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of collateral, if any, backing our investments. This could lead to a decline in value of our debt investments, which could result in a decline in our net earnings and NAV. We may lose our entire investment in any or all of our portfolio companies. Most of our portfolio companies will need additional capital, which may not be readily available.The portfolio companies we intend to target under our New Investment Strategy may have limited financial resources and typically require substantial additional financing to satisfy their continuing working capital and other capital requirements and service the interest and principal payments on our debt investments. We cannot predict the circumstances or market conditions under which these portfolio companies will seek additional capital. Each round of institutional equity financing is typically intended to provide a company with only enough capital to reach the next stage of development. It is possible that one or more of our portfolio companies will not be able to raise additional financing or may be able to do so only at a price or on terms that are unfavorable to the portfolio company, either of which would negatively impact our investment returns. Some of these companies may be unable to obtain sufficient financing from any provider of capital under any terms, thereby requiring these companies to cease or curtail business operations. Accordingly, investing in these types of companies generally entails a higher risk of loss than investing in companies that do not have significant incremental capital raising requirements. Portfolio companies that do not have venture capital or private equity firms as financial sponsors may entail a higher risk of loss than do companies with institutional equity investors, which could increase the risk of loss of your investment.Portfolio companies that do not have venture capital or private equity investors as financial sponsors may be unable to raise any additional capital to satisfy their obligations or to raise sufficient additional capital to reach the next stage of development. Portfolio companies that do not have financial sponsors may be less financially sophisticated and may not have access to independent members to serve on their boards, which means that they may be less successful than portfolio companies sponsored by venture capital or private equity firms. Accordingly, financing these types of companies may entail a higher risk of loss than would financing companies that have a financial sponsor.If our portfolio companies are unable to commercialize their technologies, products, business concepts or services, the returns on our debt and equity investments could be adversely affected.The value of our debt and equity investments in our portfolio companies may decline if our portfolio companies are not able to commercialize their technology, products, business concepts or services. Additionally, although some of our portfolio companies may already have a commercially successful product or product line at the time of our investment, technology-related products and services often have a more limited market or life span than products in other industries. Thus, the ultimate success of these companies often depends on their ability to innovate continually in increasingly competitive markets. If they are unable to do so, our investment returns could be adversely affected, and their ability to service their debt obligations to us over the life of a loan could be impaired. Our portfolio companies may be unable to acquire or develop successful new technologies and the intellectual property they currently hold may not remain viable. Even if our portfolio companies are able to develop commercially viable products, the market for new products and services is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Neither our portfolio companies nor we have any control over the pace of technology development. Commercial success is difficult to predict, and the marketing efforts of our portfolio companies may not be successful.18Table of ContentsIf our portfolio companies are unable to protect their intellectual property rights, our business and prospects could be harmed, and if portfolio companies are required to devote significant resources to protecting their intellectual property rights, the value of our investment could be reduced.Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon the ability of our portfolio companies to obtain, maintain and protect proprietary technology used in their products and services. The intellectual property held by our portfolio companies often represents a substantial portion of the collateral securing our debt investments or constitutes a significant portion of the portfolio companies’ value that may be available in a downside scenario to repay our secured debt investments. Our portfolio companies rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology, but competitors may misappropriate their intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. Portfolio companies may, from time to time, be required to institute litigation to enforce their patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, protect their trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Similarly, if a portfolio company is found to infringe or misappropriate a third party’s patent or other proprietary rights, it could be required to pay damages to the third party, alter its products or processes, obtain a license from the third party or cease activities utilizing the proprietary rights, including making or selling products utilizing the proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events could negatively affect both the portfolio company’s ability to service our debt investment and the value of any related debt and equity securities that we own, as well as the value of any collateral securing our investment.Our investments in technology companies are subject to many risks, including regulatory concerns, litigation risks and intense competition. We intend to make investments in technology companies, which are subject to substantial risks. For example, our portfolio companies face intense competition since their businesses are rapidly evolving, intensely competitive and subject to changing technology, shifting user needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. Potential competitors to our portfolio companies in the technology industry range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Further, such companies are subject to laws that were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. The laws that do reference the Internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. Claims have been threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by a company’s users, a company’s products and services, or content generated by a company’s users. Further, the growth of technology companies into a variety of new fields implicate a variety of new regulatory issues and may subject such companies to increased regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in the technology industry and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us and adversely affect the value of these portfolio companies.Our investments in the healthcare and life sciences industries are subject to extensive government regulation, litigation risk and certain other risks particular to that industry.We intend to invest in companies in the healthcare and life sciences industries that are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, and to a lesser extent, other federal, state and other foreign agencies. If any of these portfolio companies fail to comply with applicable regulations, they could be subject to significant penalties and claims that could materially and adversely affect their operations. Portfolio companies that produce medical devices or drugs are subject to the expense, delay and uncertainty of the regulatory approval process for their products and, even if approved, these products may not be accepted in the marketplace. In addition, governmental budgetary constraints effecting the regulatory approval process, new laws, regulations or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations might adversely affect a portfolio company in this industry. Portfolio companies in the healthcare and life sciences industries may also have a limited number of suppliers of necessary components or a limited number of manufacturers for their products, and therefore face a risk of disruption to their manufacturing process if they are unable to find alternative suppliers when needed. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in the healthcare and life sciences industries and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us and adversely affect the value of these portfolio companies.Our investments in life sciences companies are subject to numerous risks, including competition, extensive government regulation, product liability and commercial difficulties.We intend to invest in companies in the life sciences industries, including biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and medical device companies, which are subject to numerous risks. The successful and timely implementation of the business model of our biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device portfolio companies depends on their ability to adapt to changing technologies and introduce new products. As competitors continue to introduce competitive products, the development and acquisition of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patient’s and clinician’s ease of use and cost-effectiveness are important to the success of such portfolio companies. The success of new product offerings will depend on many factors, including the ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, develop and manufacture 19Table of Contentsproducts in an economic and timely manner, obtain or maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property, and differentiate products from those of competitors. Failure by our portfolio companies to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce products on schedule could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Further, the development of products by biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device companies requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including the ability to innovate, develop and manufacture new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the U.S. and abroad, or gain and maintain market approval of products. In addition, regulatory review processes by U.S. and foreign agencies may extend longer than anticipated as a result of decreased funding and tighter fiscal budgets. Further, patents attained by others can preclude or delay the commercialization of a product. There can be no assurance that any products now in development will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval, or gain market acceptance. Failure can occur at any point in the development process, including after significant funds have been invested. Products may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, failure to achieve market adoption, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or the infringement of intellectual property rights of others.Changes in healthcare laws and other regulations applicable to some of our portfolio companies’ businesses may constrain their ability to offer their products and services.Changes in healthcare or other laws and regulations applicable to the businesses of some of our portfolio companies may occur that could increase their compliance and other costs of doing business, require significant systems enhancements, or render their products or services less profitable or obsolete, any of which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations. There has also been an increased political and regulatory focus on healthcare laws in recent years, and new legislation could have a material effect on the business and operations of some of our portfolio companies.Our investments in the energy and energy-related technology industries are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, unproven technologies, periodic downturns, loss of government subsidies and incentives, and potential litigation. We intend to make investments in energy and energy-related technology companies that are subject to substantial operational risks, such as underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, loss of government subsidies, and inability to deliver cost-effective alternative energy solutions compared to traditional energy products. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction or acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, the directional drilling, infrastructure development and oilfield services companies that we intend to target may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risks arising from their specific business strategies. Furthermore, production levels for solar, wind and other renewable energies may be dependent upon adequate sunlight, wind, or biogas production, which can vary from market to market and period to period, resulting in volatility in production levels and profitability. In addition, our energy companies may have narrow product lines and small market shares, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as to general economic downturns. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of energy and energy-related technology companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically and the markets in which these companies operate are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition. Demand for energy technology and renewable energy is also influenced by the available supply and prices for other energy products, such as coal, oil and natural gases. A change in prices in these energy products could reduce demand for alternative energy. Our investments in energy companies also face potential litigation, including significant warranty and product liability claims, as well as class action and government claims arising from business failures of companies supported government subsidies. Such litigation could adversely affect the business and results of operations of our energy portfolio companies. There is also particular uncertainty about whether agreements providing government incentives and subsidies for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, such as the Kyoto Protocol, will continue and whether countries around the world will enact or maintain legislation that provides such incentives and subsidies for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, without which such investments in energy technology dependent portfolio companies may not be economical or financing for such projects may become unavailable. As a result, these portfolio company investments face considerable risk, including the risk that favorable regulatory regimes or government subsidies and incentives expire or are adversely modified. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the operations of a portfolio company in the energy and energy-related technology industries and, in turn, impair our ability to timely collect principal and interest payments owed to us and adversely affect the value of these portfolio companies.20Table of ContentsWe may invest in obligations of non-U.S. obligors, which involve certain risks related to regional economic conditions and risks not normally associated with investments in the obligations of sovereign and corporate obligors located in the United States.Although 70% of our investments must be in U.S.-based companies, we may invest in obligations of obligors organized or incorporated under the laws of a country other than the U.S. or a state or territory thereof. Investments in the obligations of non-U.S. obligors involve certain special risks related to regional economic conditions and sovereign risks which are not normally associated with investments in the obligations of sovereign and corporate obligors located in the U.S. We are unable to provide any information regarding the specific risks associated with purchasing a loan, participation interest or other investment governed by a law other than those of a U.S. jurisdiction. These risks may include and economic uncertainty, fluctuations of currency exchange rates, lower levels of disclosure and regulation in foreign securities markets, confiscatory taxation, taxation of income earned in foreign nations or other taxes or restrictions imposed with respect to investments in foreign nations, foreign exchange controls (which may include suspension of the ability to transfer currency from a given country and repatriation of investments) and uncertainties as to the status, interpretation and application of laws including, but not limited to those relating to insolvency. In addition, there is often less publicly available information about non-U.S. obligors than about sovereign and corporate obligors in the U.S. Sovereign and corporate obligors in countries other than the U.S. may not be subject to uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, and auditing practices and requirements for both foreign public and private obligors may not be comparable to those applicable to U.S. companies. It also may be difficult to obtain and enforce a judgment relating to investments issued by a non-U.S. obligor in a court outside the U.S.We generally will not control our portfolio companies.We generally will not control our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of its common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt or preferred equity investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in privately held companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings.Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results.A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company.We may hold the debt and equity securities of companies that may enter into bankruptcy proceedings.The Growth Companies we intend to target may experience bankruptcy or similar financial distress. The bankruptcy process has a number of significant inherent risks. Many events in a bankruptcy proceeding are the product of contested matters and adversary proceedings and are beyond the control of the creditors. A bankruptcy filing by a borrower may adversely and permanently affect the borrower. If the proceeding is converted to a liquidation, the value of the borrower may not equal the liquidation value that was believed to exist at the time of the investment. The duration of a bankruptcy proceeding is also difficult to predict, and a creditor’s return on investment can be adversely affected by delays until the plan of reorganization or liquidation ultimately becomes effective. The administrative costs of a bankruptcy proceeding are frequently high and would be paid out of the debtor’s estate prior to any return to creditors. Because the standards for classification of claims under bankruptcy law are vague, our influence with respect to the class of securities or other obligations we own may be lost by increases in the number and amount of claims in the same class or by different classification and treatment. In the early stages of the bankruptcy process, it is often difficult to estimate the extent of, or even to identify, any contingent claims that might be made. In addition, certain claims that have priority by law (for example, claims for taxes) may be substantial.Any unrealized depreciation we experience on our debt and equity investments may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our gains available for distribution.As a BDC, we are required to carry our debt and equity investments at fair value which shall be the market value of our investments or, if no market value is ascertainable, at the fair value as determined in good faith pursuant to procedures approved by our board of directors in accordance with our valuation policy. We are not permitted to maintain a reserve for loan losses. Decreases in the fair values of our debt and equity investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation in our debt or equity portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us and the potential future decline in the value of our investments. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately reduces our gains available for distribution in future periods.21Table of ContentsWhile most of our debt and equity investments are not publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants (even if we plan on holding an investment through its maturity). As a result, volatility in the capital markets can also adversely affect our investment valuations. As part of the valuation process, we may take into account the following types of factors, if relevant, in determining the fair value of our debt and equity investments: the enterprise value of a portfolio company (an estimate of the total fair value of the portfolio company’s debt and equity), the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, a comparison of the portfolio company’s securities to similar publicly traded securities, changes in the interest rate environment and the credit markets generally that may affect the price at which similar investments may be made in the future and other relevant factors. When an external event such as a purchase transaction, public offering or subsequent equity sale occurs, we use the pricing indicated by the external event to corroborate our valuation. While most of our debt and equity investments are not publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants (even if we plan on holding an investment through its maturity). As a result, volatility in the capital markets can also adversely affect our investment valuations.We may participate on creditors’ committees to negotiate the management of financially troubled companies.We may (through an agent) participate on committees formed by creditors to negotiate the management of financially troubled companies that may or may not be in bankruptcy or we may seek to negotiate directly with the debtors with respect to restructuring issues. If we do join a creditors’ committee, the participants of the committee would be interested in obtaining an outcome that is in their respective individual best interests and there can be no assurance of obtaining results most favorable to our interests. By participating on such committees, we may be deemed to have duties to other creditors represented by the committees, which might expose us to liability to such other creditors who disagree with our actions.We may also be provided with material non-public information that may restrict our ability to trade in such company’s securities. While we intend to comply with all applicable securities laws and to make judgments concerning restrictions on trading in good faith, we may trade in a company’s securities while engaged in such company’s restructuring activities. Such trading creates a risk of litigation and liability that may cause us to incur significant legal fees and potential losses.We may choose to waive or defer enforcement of covenants in the debt investments held in our portfolio, which may cause us to lose all or part of our investment in these companies.We may structure the debt investments in our portfolio companies to include business and financial covenants placing affirmative and negative obligations on the operation of the company’s business and its financial condition. The purpose of these provisions is to require our portfolio companies to act, or refrain from acting, in a manner that we believe will best protect the capital we have invested. However, the financial condition and results of operations of our portfolio companies may cause us to determine that it would be in our stockholders’ and portfolio companies’ best interest to waive or defer enforcement of these provisions. As a result, we may offer a flexible payment and covenant enforcement structure to our portfolio companies. Accordingly, determination to waive or defer enforcement of some or all of these covenants may not provide us with the same level of protection as more restrictive conditions that traditional lenders typically impose on borrowers. In certain situations, we may even elect to waive breaches of these covenants, including our right to payment, or waive or defer enforcement of remedies, such as acceleration of obligations or foreclosure on collateral, depending upon the financial condition and prospects of the particular portfolio company, including situations where we believe that one or more financial sponsors intend to, express their intent to, or provide subject to milestones or contingencies, continued support, assistance or financial commitment to the borrower. We may also modify or waive a provision or term of our existing debt securities which we would otherwise be entitled to enforce. The terms of any such modification or waiver may not be as favorable to us in the short term as we could have required, or had the right to require, and we may choose to enforce less vigorously our rights and remedies under our debt securities than traditional lenders due to our investment philosophy to provide the portfolio company with the time and flexibility needed to enable it to comply with the terms of the covenant. These actions may reduce the likelihood in the short term of our receiving the full amount of future payments of interest or principal and be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the underlying collateral as many of these companies may have limited financial resources, may be unable to meet future obligations and may go bankrupt. These events could harm our financial condition and operating results.If the collateral supporting our secured debt decreases in value, we may not have sufficient collateral to cover losses and may experience losses upon foreclosure.We believe our portfolio companies generally will be able to repay our loans from their available capital, from future capital-raising transactions or from current or anticipated cash flow from operations. However, to mitigate our credit risks, we typically take a security interest in all or a portion of the assets of our portfolio companies, including equity interests in their subsidiaries. This means we have a claim on these assets in the event of a default. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our debt may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to appraise or sell in a timely manner and may fluctuate in value based upon the 22Table of Contentsbusiness and market conditions, including as a result of an inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration of a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration of the value of the collateral for our secured debt. Consequently, although our debt may be secured, we may not receive principal and interest payments according to the terms of our debt securities and because of a borrower’s declining business condition. In addition, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to recover our debt investment should we be forced to enforce our remedies.In addition, because we invest in Growth Companies across various stages of development, a substantial portion of the assets securing our debt investment may be in the form of intellectual property, if any, inventory, equipment, cash and accounts receivables. Unlike property, plant and equipment, intellectual property is an intangible asset such as a copyright, a trademark or trade name or even a patent. Intellectual property, if any, which secures our debt investments could lose value if the portfolio company’s rights to the intellectual property are challenged or if the company’s license to the intellectual property is revoked or expires. Rapid changes in technology may also render previously valuable intellectual property less valuable. In addition, in lieu of a security interest in a portfolio company’s intellectual property we may sometimes obtain a security interest in all assets of the portfolio company other than intellectual property and also obtain a commitment by the portfolio company not to grant liens to any other creditor on the company’s intellectual property. In these cases, we may have additional difficulty recovering our principal in the event of a foreclosure. Similarly, any equipment securing our debt investments may not provide us with the anticipated security if there are changes in technology or advances in new equipment that render the particular equipment obsolete or of limited value or if the company fails to adequately maintain or repair the equipment. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover principal in a foreclosure.Volatility of oil and natural gas prices could impair certain of our portfolio companies’ operations and ability to satisfy obligations to their respective lenders and investors, including us, which could negatively impact our financial condition. Some of our portfolio companies’ businesses are heavily dependent upon the prices of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, which have recently declined significantly and such volatility could continue or increase in the future. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas demand or prices may adversely affect the business, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity or results of operations of these portfolio companies and might impair their ability to meet capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. A prolonged or continued decline in oil prices could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may suffer a loss if a portfolio company defaults on our debt securities and the underlying collateral is not sufficient or our debt is unsecured.In the event of a default by a portfolio company on our secured debt, we will only have recourse to the assets collateralizing the loan. If the underlying collateral value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. In addition, we may make debt investments that are unsecured, which are subject to the risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the assets of the portfolio company. In the event of a default, those collateralized lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying assets. In cases described above, we may lack control over the underlying asset collateralizing our secured debt or the underlying assets of the portfolio company prior to a default, and as a result the value of the collateral may be reduced by acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets.If the value of collateral underlying our secured debt declines or interest rates increase during the term of our debt, a portfolio company may not be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay our debt investment at maturity through refinancing. Decreasing collateral value or increasing interest rates may hinder a portfolio company’s ability to refinance our debt securities because the underlying collateral cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing. If a borrower is unable to repay our debt investment at maturity, we could suffer a loss which may adversely impact our financial performance.Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our debt and equity investments in such companies.Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt or equity in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. These debt instruments may also prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our debt investments in the event of, and during, the continuance of a default under the debt instruments. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our debt investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution on our debt or equity investments. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its debt obligation to us or our equity investments. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.23Table of ContentsWe could be subject to lender liability claims.We may be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. A number of judicial decisions have upheld judgments of borrowers against lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed "lender liability." Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has violated a duty (whether implied or contractual) of good faith, commercial reasonableness and fair dealing, or a similar duty owed to the borrower or has assumed an excessive degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or stockholders. Because of the nature of our debt investments we may be subject to allegations of lender liability.In addition, under common law principles that in some cases form the basis for lender liability claims, if a lender or bondholder (i) intentionally takes an action that results in the undercapitalization of a borrower to the detriment of other creditors of such borrower, (ii) engages in other inequitable conduct to the detriment of such other creditors, (iii) engages in fraud with respect to, or makes misrepresentations to, such other creditors or (iv) uses its influence as a stockholder to dominate or control a borrower to the detriment of other creditors of such borrower, a court may elect to subordinate the claim of the offending lender to the claims of the disadvantaged creditor or creditors, a remedy called "equitable subordination." Because of the nature of our debt investments, and particularly because we intend to make direct equity investments and may receive warrants in connection with our loans, we may be subject to claims of equitable subordination. Further, because we or affiliates of our investment adviser may also hold equity or other interests in obligors of our portfolio companies, we could be exposed to claims for equitable subordination or lender liability or both based on such equity or other holdings.The preceding discussion is based upon principles of U.S. federal and state laws. Insofar as debt investments are obligations of non-U.S. obligors, the laws of certain foreign jurisdictions may impose liability upon lenders or bondholders under factual circumstances similar to those described above, with consequences that may or may not be analogous to those described above under U.S. federal and state laws.Second priority liens on collateral securing our debt investments may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Some of our debt investments will be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior debt of the portfolio companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding secured debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the secured debt. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before we receive anything. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any.The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.Our unsecured and subordinated debt investments are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness that a portfolio company has currently incurred or may incur in the future.The repayment of our unsecured and subordinated debt investments is generally subject to full payment of any secured indebtedness of the portfolio company. As a result, our unsecured and subordinated debt investments are effectively subordinated to the secured indebtedness that a portfolio company has currently incurred and may incur in the future (or any indebtedness that is initially unsecured which the portfolio company subsequently grants security) to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, the holders of any of existing or future secured indebtedness of the portfolio company may assert rights against the assets pledged to secure that indebtedness in order to receive full payment of their indebtedness before the assets may be used to pay other creditors, including us as holders of unsecured and subordinated debt. 24Table of ContentsPrepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity.We are subject to the risk that the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. At the time of a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, refinancing or public offering, many of our portfolio companies may avail themselves of the opportunity to repay our debt securities prior to maturity. Our debt investments generally allow for repayment at any time subject to certain penalties. When this occurs, we generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future debt investment in a new portfolio company may also be at a lower yield than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.Our failure to make follow-on equity investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our equity portfolio.Often during a growth company’s life cycle, an additional or "follow-on" equity investment is required to fully realize the value to be created by the portfolio company. Following an initial equity investment in a portfolio company in accordance with our New Investment Strategy, we may make such "follow-on" equity investments, in order to attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our initial equity investment. We may elect not to make these follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We will have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on equity investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company, result in a diminished current value, impair the ability or likelihood for a full recovery of the value of our initial equity investment, result in a default under any outstanding debt investment with the portfolio company, or result in a missed opportunity for us to maintain or increase our equity participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on equity investment, we may elect not to make such follow-on investment because we do not want to increase our concentration of risk in that portfolio company, we prefer other opportunities, we are subject to BDC requirements that would prevent or limit such follow-on investment or the follow-on investment would affect our qualification as a RIC, particularly the RIC diversification requirements. The lack of liquidity in our debt and equity investments may adversely affect our business, and if we seek to sell any of our investments, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price, if at all. As a result, we may suffer losses.We plan to generally hold debt investments until maturity, unless earlier prepaid. Any direct equity investments such as preferred stock holdings typically will not provide us with liquidity opportunities for at least four years, if not substantially longer. We expect to primarily invest in companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our debt and equity investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired, if at all. We may also face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a publicly traded portfolio company to the extent that we possess material non-public information regarding the portfolio company or during the underwriters’ customary 180-day lockup period following an IPO. Because most of our investments are illiquid, we may be unable to dispose of them, in which case we could fail to qualify as a RIC or BDC, or we may not be able to dispose of them at favorable prices, and as a result, we may suffer losses.Many of the Growth Companies that we intend to target will have complex capital structures.Although we intend to invest primarily in the secured and unsecured debt of Growth Companies, we may also make direct equity investments in these companies either in connection with our debt investments or on a stand-alone basis. Such companies frequently have complex capital structures based on multiple rounds of equity financing and, as a result, may have multiple classes of common and preferred equity securities with differing rights, including with respect to voting, dividends, redemptions, liquidation, and conversion rights. Although we seek to make equity investments in the portfolio company’s most senior class of equity securities, the seniority and protections provided in these types of equity investments may be diminished if the portfolio company issues more senior securities in a subsequent equity financing round. The value of our equity investments may also be adversely affected by subsequent debt financing by a portfolio company. Our investment adviser typically requires information on the private company’s capital structure as part of its due diligence process. Although we believe that our investment adviser’s investment professionals have extensive experience evaluating and investing in Growth Companies with such complex capital structures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately evaluate the relative risks and benefits of investing in a particular class of a portfolio company’s equity securities. Further, a preferred equity investment we make may be superseded by another series of preferred stock with greater priority. Any failure on our part to properly evaluate the relative rights and value of a class of equity securities in which we invest could cause us to lose part or all of our equity investment, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our NAV and results of operations.25Table of ContentsThe warrants, options and rights to acquire equity securities that we may receive in connection with our debt investments, as well as the direct equity investments we may make in portfolio companies, are highly speculative, and may not appreciate in value and may result in unrealized depreciation or realized losses which may adversely affect our returns. When we invest in debt securities, we generally expect to acquire warrants, options and rights to acquire equity securities of the portfolio company typically at the same price paid by the portfolio company’s equity investors in the most recent or next equity round. These warrants, options and rights to acquire equity securities may include a "cashless exercise" provision to allow us to exercise these rights without requiring us to make any additional cash investment. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon disposition of such interests. Over time, the gains that we realize on these equity interests may offset, to some extent, losses that we experience on defaults under debt securities that we hold. However, the equity interests that we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. It is possible that these equity interests may become worthless. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses that we experience on our debt securities. We may also make direct equity investments, where we make an upfront cash investment in a company’s equity securities, either as part of our debt investment or as a stand-alone investment. To the extent we hold these equity investments, we will attempt to dispose of them and realize gains upon our disposition of them. However, these equity investments are highly speculative and may not appreciate in value or may decline in value. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business or an IPO, or if the portfolio company defaults under its outstanding indebtedness, which could materially decrease the value of, or prevent us from being able to sell, our equity investments. If our direct equity investments decline in value, we may have unrealized depreciation or realized losses which may adversely affect our returns. We may not succeed in negotiating structural protections for our direct equity investments under our New Investment Strategy, and cannot assure you that we will realize gains from structural protections in these investments. As part of our New Investment Strategy, our investment adviser may attempt to negotiate structural protections with respect to our direct equity investments that may provide an opportunity to earn a potential enhanced return upon an IPO, sale, merger or liquidation. Such structural protections may include preferred rights relative to other security holders, conversion rights which would result in us receiving shares of common stock at a discount to the IPO price upon conversion at the time of the IPO, warrants that would result in us receiving additional shares for a nominal exercise price at the time of an IPO or liquidation preferences at amounts greater than our investment cost or with participation rights entitling us to participate with common stockholders after all liquidation preference are paid. There can be no assurance that our investment adviser will succeed in negotiating structural protections for our direct equity investments. Even if our investment adviser succeeds in obtaining such protections, our ability to realize the potential value associated with these structural protections will depend on a number of factors including the completion of the IPO, any adjustment to the terms of the structural protection that may be negotiated during the IPO process and the possible subsequent issuance of more senior securities that may impact the relative value of our investment. Further, even if an IPO is completed, we would not realize the potential value associated with these structural protections unless the market price of the portfolio company’s common shares equaled or exceeded the IPO price at the time such shares were sold following the customary 180-day lockup period. Further, our ability to realize the potential value associated with any structural protections at the time of a sale, merger or liquidation of a portfolio company will depend on a number of factors including the realization of sale, merger or liquidation proceeds (after payment of liabilities) sufficient to pay our senior preference amount, any adjustment to our preference amount that may be negotiated prior to any sale, merger or liquidation and the possible subsequent issuance of more senior securities that may make our preference rights subordinate to the preference rights of senior security holders. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the potential value of these structural protections even if we are able to obtain them.Engaging in hedging transactions may expose us to additional risks.We may enter into interest rate or currency hedges. Hedging against interest rate and currency fluctuations may expose us to additional risks and could harm our financial performance. Our use of hedging would not eliminate the risk that the value of our investments could decline or that our investment performance would be better off if we did not hedge. The effectiveness of our hedging is dependent on the price we pay for the hedge and the correlation of the hedge to the risk it is designed to mitigate. It may arise that the cost of a hedging instrument exceeds its expected benefits or that an instrument may not hedge all of the risk for which it was designed to mitigate. Additionally, the use of hedging instruments exposes us to counterparty risk including the failure to perform under the contract such as nonpayment. In the case of the early termination of a hedge agreement upon the occurrence of certain events of default or termination events set forth in the hedge agreement we may be required to make a payment to the hedge provider.A lack of IPO opportunities may cause companies to stay in our portfolio longer, leading to lower returns, unrealized depreciation, or realized losses on our equity investments. A typical “liquidity event” for a Growth Company may be an IPO, in which the Growth Company’s investors are able to dispose of their investment usually following a six-month post-IPO lockup period. A lack of IPO opportunities for Growth 26Table of ContentsCompanies could lead to companies remaining in our portfolio as private entities still requiring funding. This situation may adversely affect the amount of available funding for future early-stage companies in particular as, in general, venture capital firms are being forced to provide additional financing to late-stage companies that cannot complete an IPO to preserve the value of their initial investment. In the best case, we would be required to forego investments in otherwise promising Growth Companies to provide the required financing for existing portfolio companies necessary to retain the value of our original investment, and in the worst case, this could lead to unrealized depreciation and realized losses as some companies run short of cash and have to accept lower valuations in private financings or are not able to access additional capital at all. A lack of IPO opportunities for Growth Companies can also cause some financial sponsors to change their strategies, leading some of them to reduce funding of their portfolio companies and making it more difficult for such companies to access capital and to fulfill their potential, which can result in unrealized depreciation and realized losses in such companies by other capital providers such as ourselves who are lenders to or potentially co-investors in such companies.There will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. We expect that a large percentage of our portfolio investments will be in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We expect to value these securities on a quarterly basis in accordance with our valuation policy, which is at all times consistent with GAAP. Our investment adviser intends to utilize the services of third-party valuation firms to aid it in determining the fair value of these securities. Our Board of Directors will discuss valuations and determine the fair value in good faith based on the input of our investment adviser and the respective third-party valuation firms. The factors that may be considered in fair value pricing our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparisons to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities.Risks Relating to Our Business and StructureAny failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility.We intend to continue to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of eligible portfolio companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. Upon approval of a majority of our stockholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a BDC. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify, or maintain our qualification, as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility and increase our costs of doing business.Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to achieve our New Investment Objective.Our ability to achieve our New Investment Objective will depend on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, analyze and invest in Growth Companies in accordance with our New Investment Objective. There can be no assurance that our investment adviser will be successful in identifying and investing in Growth Companies in accordance with our New Investment Objective, or that we will achieve our New Investment Objective. We may be unable to achieve the economies of scale we believe are necessary to provide our stockholders with an attractive return.Our inability to raise equity capital or access debt financing or to successfully implement our New Investment Strategy could negatively affect our business, inhibit our ability to scale operations, and lead to an increase in our operating expenses as a percentage of our net assets. We must also bear certain fixed expenses, such as certain administrative, governance, regulatory and compliance costs that do not generally vary based on our size. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC, that do not generally vary based on our total assets. Because the equity investments in our current portfolio do not generate current income, and because we distribute 100% of our net realized capital gains on at least an annual basis, our operating expenses have historically caused a steady decline in, and depletion of, our net assets. Unless and until the composition of our current portfolio is transformed to consist predominantly of income-generating assets, this depletion of net assets will continue for the foreseeable future. While subject to change due to 27Table of Contentsvarious factors and our ability to successfully originate debt investment under our New Investment Strategy, we currently believe that this transformation to a portfolio that generates net investment income will not be completed until year-end 2016, at the earliest.We may experience fluctuations in our periodic results, and if we fail to achieve our investment objective, the net asset value of our common stock may decline.We could experience fluctuations in our periodic results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our new investment criteria, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on any borrowings we may incur), variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized gains or losses and unrealized appreciation and depreciation on our equity investments, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Our periodic results will also be affected by the ability of our private portfolio companies in which we have made equity investments to complete their IPOs or complete a strategic sale/merger. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.Our business model depends upon the development and maintenance of strong referral relationships with venture capital firms and investment banks, and our direct outreach to private companies.We are substantially dependent on our relationships with venture capital firms and investment banks, which we use to help identify and gain access to investment opportunities, and our outreach to private companies that meet our new investment criteria. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships, our relationships become strained as a result of enforcing our rights to protect our investments in certain portfolio companies, or we fail to develop new relationships with other firms or sources of investment opportunities, then we may not be able to grow our network of sources for new portfolio company investments and achieve our New Investment Objective. In addition, persons with whom our investment adviser has relationships are not obligated to inform us of investment opportunities, and therefore such relationships may not lead to the origination of debt investments under our New Investment Strategy. Any loss or diminishment of such relationships could effectively reduce our ability to identify attractive portfolio companies that meet our new investment criteria.Our ability to grow will depend on our ability to raise capital, and a disruption in the capital markets or the credit markets could negatively affect our business.Limitations on our ability to raise additional capital may prevent us from pursuing new investment opportunities. Disruptive conditions in the financial industry and any new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict our business operations and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of debt investments that we target as part of our New Investment Strategy. We compete for such debt investments with a large number of investment funds, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and finance companies. Most of these competitors are substantially larger, have considerably greater financial resources than we do, may have a lower cost of funds as well as access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. Our investment adviser and its affiliates may also form additional BDCs or other investment programs, enter into other investment advisory relationships or engage in other business activities, even though such activities may be in competition with us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC and, as a result, such companies may be more successful in completing their investments. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make debt investments that are consistent with our New Investment Objective.The incentive fee may induce our investment adviser to make speculative investments or incur leverage.The incentive fee payable by us to our investment adviser may create an incentive for our investment adviser to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to our investment adviser is determined, which is calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital, may encourage our investment adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. In addition, the fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which would include any borrowings for investment purposes, may encourage our investment adviser to seek to use leverage to make additional investments. We will be required, however, to obtain the approval of our Board of Directors before we incur any indebtedness. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns.28Table of ContentsIn addition, our investment adviser has control over the timing of the acquisition and sale of our equity investments, and therefore over when we realize gains and losses on these equity investments. As a result, our investment adviser may face a conflict of interest in determining when it is appropriate to sell a specific equity investment, to the extent that doing so may serve to maximize its incentive fee at a point where selling such investment may not necessarily be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors monitors such conflicts of interest in connection with its review of the performance of our investment adviser under our Investment Advisory Agreement, as well as during its quarterly review of our financial performance and results of operations.We may borrow money, which would magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us.Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. We may borrow funds to finance the purchase of our investments in portfolio companies, to the extent we determine that additional capital would allow us to take advantage of additional investment opportunities, if the market for debt financing presents attractively priced debt financing opportunities, or if our Board of Directors determines that leveraging our portfolio would be in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. The costs associated with any borrowing will be indirectly borne by our common stockholders. If we do incur leverage, we may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Lenders would have claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. To the extent we use debt to finance our investments, changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and increase our net investment loss. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to our investment adviser.Our use of borrowed funds to make investments may expose us to risks typically associated with leverage.We may borrow funds to finance the purchase of our investments in portfolio companies, to the extent we determine that additional capital would allow us to take advantage of additional investment opportunities, if the market for debt financing presents attractively priced debt financing opportunities, or if our Board of Directors determines that leveraging our portfolio would be in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. To the extent we do utilize leverage:•a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common shares than if we did not use leverage, therefore, shares of our common stock are exposed to incremental risk of loss;•adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we make with the proceeds of any leverage;•our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be restricted if our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness may not be available for such dividends;•such indebtedness would be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility;•we, and indirectly our stockholders, would bear the cost of issuing and paying interest on such debt securities; and•any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock.Our investment adviser's compensation may create an incentive to cause us to incur leverage.Our base management fee is calculated on the basis of our total assets, including assets acquired with the proceeds of leverage. We may borrow additional funds to make investments, to the extent we determine that additional capital would allow us to take advantage of additional investment opportunities, if the market for debt financing presents attractively priced debt financing opportunities, or if our Board of Directors determines that leveraging our portfolio would be in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. Our investment adviser faces conflicts of interest with respect to the use of leverage because it would increase its fees. 29Table of ContentsOur investment adviser and its affiliates, officers and employees have certain conflicts of interest, which could impact our investment returns and limit the flexibility of our investment policies.We have entered into an Investment Advisory Agreement with our investment adviser. We pay our investment adviser our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by it in performing its obligations under the Investment Advisory Agreement, including a portion of the rent and the compensation of our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer, and their respective staff, which creates conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors must monitor. RCS Advisory Services, LLC ("RCS Advisory"), an affiliated entity of our investment adviser, also provides us with legal services, website design and maintenance and investor relations services, which creates conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors will monitor. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors also reviews and approves any transactions with related parties. Our investment adviser has certain conflicts of interest in connection with the management of our business affairs. Personnel of our investment adviser must allocate their time between advising us and managing other investment activities and business activities in which they may be involved, including the other programs sponsored by affiliates of AR Capital, the indirect owner of our investment adviser, as well as BDCA Adviser the investment adviser to BDCA, BDCA Adviser II, LLC, the investment adviser to BDCA II), each public, non-listed BDCs, and with any BDCs or other investment programs that may be sponsored by our investment adviser and its affiliates in the future. The compensation payable by us to our investment adviser must be approved by our Board of Directors consistent with the exercise of the requisite standard of conduct applicable to directors under Maryland law. Such compensation is payable, in most cases, regardless of the quality of the assets acquired, the services provided to us or whether or not our stockholders receive distributions, and may be based in part on the value of assets acquired with leverage.Our investment adviser and its affiliates are not restricted from forming additional BDCs or other investment programs, from entering into other investment advisory relationships or from engaging in other business activities, even though such activities may be in competition with us or may involve substantial time and resources of our investment adviser and its affiliates.To the extent permitted by the 1940 Act and the interpretations of the SEC staff, our investment adviser may determine it is appropriate for us and one or more other investment accounts managed by our investment adviser or any of its affiliates to participate in an investment opportunity. These co-investment opportunities may give rise to conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest among us and the other participating accounts. To mitigate these conflicts, our investment adviser will seek to execute such transactions for all of the participating investment accounts, including us, on a fair and equitable basis, taking into account such factors as the relative amounts of capital available for new investments and the investment programs and portfolio positions of us, the clients for which participation is appropriate and any other factors deemed appropriate.As a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to invest in any portfolio company in which BDCA, BDCA II or any other investment account managed by investment advisers affiliated with our investment adviser or any of its affiliates has an investment unless we obtain exemptive relief from the SEC.On October 2, 2014, we, BDCA and BDCA II and our respective advisers filed an application for exemptive relief with the SEC to permit an investment fund and one or more other affiliated investment funds, including future affiliated investment funds, to participate in the same investment opportunities through a proposed co-investment program where such participation would otherwise be prohibited under the 1940 Act. This exemptive relief, if granted by the SEC, would be subject to certain conditions designed to ensure that the participation by one investment fund in a co-investment transaction would not be on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of other affiliated investment funds. In the event exemptive relief is granted by the SEC, we expect to present qualifying co-investment opportunities for Growth Companies to affiliated investment funds that intend to rely on the relief and, likewise, we would expect to be presented with qualifying co-investment opportunities for Growth Companies by affiliated investment funds that intent to rely on relief. A first amendment to the application for exemptive relief was filed with the SEC on March 13, 2015. However, to date, the SEC has not ruled on the application for exemptive relief and it is possible that the application for exemptive relief could be under review by the SEC for an extended period. There is also no assurance that we will obtain the requested relief from the SEC.Our investment adviser can resign on 120 days’ notice and we may be unable to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.Our investment adviser has the right, under our Investment Advisory Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 120 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our investment adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 120 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so promptly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of 30Table of Contentsexecutives having the expertise possessed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Even if we were able to retain comparable management, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective might result in additional costs and time delays that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.Operating under the constraints imposed on us as a BDC and a regulated investment company may hinder the achievement of our investment objectives.The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S.-based private companies or public companies with market capitalizations of less than $250 million, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less. In addition, qualification for taxation as a regulated investment company, or RIC, requires satisfaction of source-of-income, diversification and distribution requirements. These constraints, among others, may hinder our investment adviser's ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective.Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to and the way in which we raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage if we borrow funds to make additional investments.We may borrow funds or issue senior securities, including preferred stock, to finance the purchase of our investments in portfolio companies, to the extent we determine that additional capital would allow us to take advantage of additional investment opportunities, if the market for debt financing presents attractively priced debt financing opportunities, or if our Board of Directors determines that leveraging our portfolio would be in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. We do not currently anticipate issuing any preferred stock, although we could do so if our Board of Directors determines that is was in our best interest and the best interests of our stockholders. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Our Board of Directors is required under the 1940 Act to approve any issuance of senior securities. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that were to happen, we might be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders.If in the future we issue debt or preferred stock, all of the costs of offering and servicing such debt or preferred stock, including interest or preferential dividend payments thereon, will be borne by our common stockholders. The interests of the holders of any debt or preferred stock we may issue will not necessarily be aligned with the interests of our common stockholders. In particular, the rights of holders of our debt or preferred stock to receive interest, dividends or principal repayment will be senior to those of our common stockholders. Also, in the event we were to issue preferred stock, the holders of such preferred stock may have the ability to elect two members of our Board of Directors. In addition, we may grant a lender a security interest in a significant portion or all of our assets, even if the total amount we may borrow from such lender is less than the amount of such lender’s security interest in our assets. In no event, however, will any lender to us have any veto power over, or any vote with respect to, any change in our, or approval of any new, investment objective or investment policies or strategies.Changes in laws or regulations governing our business could negatively affect the profitability of our operations. Changes in the laws or regulations, or the interpretations of the laws and regulations, which govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign and international laws and regulations, and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures, and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, then we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we may have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, then we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business results of operations or financial condition.If our common stock trades below its net asset value per share, our ability to raise additional equity capital will be adversely affected, and any offering of our common stock at a price below net asset value will result in immediate dilution to existing stockholders upon the closing of any such offering.Except for a rights offering, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interest and the best interest of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. Since the listing of our common stock on Nasdaq on December 12, 2011, our shares have typically traded at a discount to our net asset value per share. If our common stock persistently 31Table of Contentstrades below net asset value, the prospect of dilution to our existing stockholders may result in it being unattractive to raise new equity, which may limit our ability to grow. If our Board of Directors determines that a sale of common stock at a price below the current net asset value is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, our Board may consider a rights offering or it may seek approval from our stockholders for the authority to sell shares of our common stock below net asset value. The risk of trading below net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline.If we were to issue shares at a price below net asset value, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to existing common stockholders, which would include a reduction in the net asset value per share as a result of the issuance. This dilution would also include a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance.In addition, if we were to conduct additional offerings in the future there may be even greater discounts if we determine to conduct such offerings at prices below net asset value. As a result, existing stockholders would experience further dilution and additional discounts to the price of our common stock. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect of any such offerings cannot be predicted.We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a regulated investment company, or RIC.Effective January 1, 2010, we elected to be treated for tax purposes as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under the Code. We intend to operate so as to qualify as a RIC in future taxable years, however, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to qualify for and maintain RIC status in future years. In order to qualify for the special treatment accorded to a RIC, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. In order to satisfy the income source requirement, we must derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities or foreign currencies, income from “qualified publicly traded partnerships” or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock or securities. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to sell certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such sales could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. In order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement for a RIC, we must distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income (which is generally our net ordinary income plus the excess, if any, of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses), if any, to our stockholders on at least an annual basis. In the event we borrow funds or issue senior securities, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the annual distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for special tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax on all our income. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate-level federal taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders.We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, such as payment-in-kind ("PIK") interest on certain debt investments.Under our New Investment Strategy, we are focused primarily on deriving current interest income on our debt investments. If we acquire debt obligations with PIK provisions, under applicable tax rules, we must include in income each year a portion of the PIK interest earned in that year. Because PIK interest will be included in our investment company taxable income in the year it is earned, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, even though we may not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to maintain our qualification for RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to continue to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. As we transition our portfolio to debt investments under our New Investment Strategy, we expect to generate current income and for current income to comprise a source of return for our stockholders over time. However, there is no guarantee that current income will exceed our annual operating expenses and result in us earning investment company taxable income for a taxable year which would need to be distributed to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement . To the extent original issue discount ("OID") or PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash representing such income. Our investments may include OID instruments and contractual PIK interest arrangements, which represents contractual interest added to a loan balance and due at the end of such loan’s term. To the extent OID or PIK interest constitute a portion of our income, 32Table of Contentswe are exposed to typical risks associated with such income being required to be included in taxable and accounting income prior to receipt of cash, including the following: •The higher interest rates of OID and PIK instruments reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with these instruments, and OID and PIK instruments generally represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans.•Even if the accounting conditions for income accrual are met, the borrower could still default when our actual collection is supposed to occur at the maturity of the obligation.•OID and PIK instruments may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral. OID and PIK income may also create uncertainty about the source of our cash distributions.•For accounting purposes, any cash distributions to shareholders representing OID and PIK income are not treated as coming from paid-in capital, even though the cash to pay them comes from the offering proceeds. As a result, despite the fact that a distribution representing OID and PIK income could be paid out of amounts invested by our stockholders, the 1940 Act does not require that stockholders be given notice of this fact by reporting it as a return of capital.Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the base management fee will still be payable.The annual base management fee is calculated as 2% of the value of our gross assets. The base management fee is payable regardless of whether the value of our gross assets or your investment declines. As a result, we may owe our investment adviser a base management fee regardless of whether we incurred significant realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation (losses) during the period for which the base management fee is paid.We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company.As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC.We face cyber-security risks. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, our information technology systems could become subject to cyber-attacks. Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure in cyber security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber-attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our investment professionals were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss.We are dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is dependent on our and third parties’ communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be: •sudden electrical or telecommunication outages;•natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;33Table of Contents•disease pandemics;•events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and•cyber-attacks.These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of our stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners.Our charter permits our Board of Directors to reclassify any authorized but unissued shares of stock into one or more classes of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors will generally have broad discretion over the size and timing of any such reclassification, subject to a finding that the reclassification and issuance of such preferred stock is in the best interests of us and our existing common stockholders. Any issuance of preferred stock would be subject to certain limitations imposed under the 1940 Act, including the requirement that such preferred stock have equal voting rights with our outstanding common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and, as of December 31, 2014, we had 9,793,994 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In the event our Board of Directors opts to reclassify a portion of our unissued shares of common stock into a class of preferred stock, those preferred shares would have a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. The cost of any such reclassification would be borne by our existing common stockholders. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that holders of preferred stock are entitled to vote separately from holders of common stock to elect two directors. As a result, our preferred stockholders would have the ability to reject a director that would otherwise be elected by our common stockholders. In addition, while Maryland law generally requires directors to act in the best interests of all of a corporation’s stockholders, there can be no assurance that a director elected by our preferred stockholders would not chose to act in a manner that tends to favors our preferred stockholders, particularly where there was a conflict between the interests of our preferred stockholders and our common stockholders. The class voting rights of any preferred shares we may issue could make it more difficult for us to take some actions that may, in the future, be proposed by the Board of Directors and/or the holders of our common stock, such as a merger, exchange of securities, liquidation, or alteration of the rights of a class of our securities, if these actions were perceived by the holders of preferred shares as not in their best interests. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on your investment in our common stock.Our Board of Directors may change certain of our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse.Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our investment objective, current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval (except as required by the 1940 Act). We cannot predict the effect any changes to our investment objective, current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment.Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock from the Control Share Act under the Maryland General Corporation Law. If our Board of Directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, the Control Share Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Although our bylaws include such a provision, such a provision may also be amended or eliminated by our Board of Directors at any time in the future, provided that we will notify the Division of Investment Management at the SEC prior to amending or eliminating this provision. However, the SEC has recently taken the position that the Control Share Act is inconsistent with the 1940 Act and may not be invoked by a BDC. It is the view of the staff of the SEC that opting into the Control Share Act would be acting in a manner inconsistent with section 18(i) of the 1940 Act. Additionally, under our charter, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock; and our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. These antitakeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock.34Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Common StockThe market price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to increase our capital base or successfully implement our investment strategy. Many of our operating expenses as a public company are fixed and independent of the size of our net assets. If we are unable to increase our capital base, or if our capital base continues to decline as has historically been the case, the ratio of our operating expenses to net assets may continue to increase, which may adversely impact our return to stockholders. Also, declining net assets and/or an increasing operating expense ratio may diminish the marketability of our common stock, which in turn may lead to diminished (or no) institutional ownership of our stock and the corresponding risk of a stock price that trades at a sustained discount to net asset value, which discount may be large.Our investments also involve a high degree of risk and, as a result, we may incur losses in the value of our investment portfolio. Portfolio company investments will be highly speculative and, therefore, an investor in our common stock may lose his entire investment. Unrealized depreciation of the debt and equity securities of our portfolio companies will always be a by-product and risk of our business, and there can be no assurance that our investment adviser will be successful in executing our investment strategy. The market price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully implement our investment strategy, and an investment in our common stock would not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance.Investing in shares of our common stock is highly speculative and an investor could lose all or some of the amount invested.Under our New Investment Strategy, we are focused on making secured and unsecured debt investments in companies that we believe are poised to grow at above-average rates relative to other sectors of the U.S. economy. We may also invest in equity or equity-like securities alongside our debt investments. Our investment objective and strategies result in a high degree of risk in our investments and may result in losses in the value of our investment portfolio. Our investments in portfolio companies are highly speculative and, therefore, an investor in our common stock may lose his entire investment. Write-downs of our debt and equity investments in privately held companies will always be a by-product and risk of our business, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve an acceptable return on our portfolio company investments. An investment in our common stock would not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance.Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially.Since shares of our common stock were listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market beginning December 12, 2011, the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. We expect that the trading price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock in the market on any particular day depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;•investor demand for our shares;•significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of regulated investment companies, business development companies or other financial services companies;•changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to regulated investment companies or business development companies;•failure to qualify as a RIC for a particular taxable year, or the loss of RIC status;•actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results and net asset value, or changes in the expectations of securities analysts;•general economic conditions and trends;•fluctuations in the valuation of our portfolio investments;•public perception of the value of our portfolio companies;•operating performance of companies comparable to us;•market sentiment in the technology sector in which we invest; or•departures of any of the principals or other investment professionals of our investment adviser.If we are unable to increase the institutional ownership of our stock and the number of analysts covering our stock, the trading volume of our stock is likely to remain low which could, in turn, increase the volatility of our stock price.In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and 35Table of Contentsresources from our business.Our shares might trade at a sustained discount from net asset value, and since the listing of our common stock on Nasdaq on December 12, 2011, our shares have typically traded at a discount to our net asset value per share.Shares of closed-end funds, including business development companies like us, may, during some periods, trade at prices higher than their net asset value per share and, during other periods, as frequently occurs with closed-end investment companies, trade at prices lower than their net asset value per share. The perceived value of our investment portfolio may be affected by a number of factors including perceived prospects for individual companies we invest in, market conditions for common stock investments generally, for initial public offerings and other exit events for venture capital-backed companies, and the mix of companies in our investment portfolio over time. Because accurate financial and other data on our portfolio companies may be limited and not publicly disseminated, the public perception of their value may be unduly influenced by trading levels on secondary marketplaces, speculation about their prospects, market conditions, uninformed investor sentiment or other factors. Negative or unforeseen developments affecting the perceived value of companies in our investment portfolio could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock relative to our net asset value per share. Since the listing of our common stock on Nasdaq on December 12, 2011, our shares have typically traded at a discount to our net asset value per share, and there is no assurance that shares of our common stock will ever trade at or above our net asset value.The possibility that our shares will continue to trade at a discount from net asset value is a risk separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decrease. The risk of purchasing shares of a BDC that might trade at a sustained discount is more pronounced for investors who wish to sell their shares in a relatively short period of time because, for those investors, realization of a gain or loss on their investments is likely to be more dependent upon changes in discount levels than upon increases or decreases in net asset value per share.There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time or may be reduced over time, particularly since our current portfolio company investments consist entirely of securities that do not produce current income, and any dividends we do pay are expected to vary significantly based on our net realized capital gains until we have successfully transitioned to a portfolio of debt investments that pays current interest income.Under our revised distribution policy, we intend to pay quarterly regular distributions to our stockholders in an amount determined and declared by the Board of Directors in the first quarter of each year. These regular distributions are intended to provide a minimum level of distributions to our stockholders each year until we are generating sufficient net investment income under our New Investment Strategy. Since our current portfolio company investments do not generate current income (i.e., dividends or interest income), we do not expect our distributions to be sourced from net investment income. As we transition our portfolio to debt investments under our New Investment Strategy, however, we expect to generate current income and for current income to comprise a source of return for our stockholders over time. If and when we are able to generate net investment income under our New Investment Strategy, we intend to pay distributions equal to at least 90% of our taxable net investment income each year in order to maintain our RIC status for tax purposes. Because of the unpredictable and inconsistent nature of the net realized capital gains we may earn over the next several years, our regular distributions are intended to provide a more consistent and predictable return to our stockholders until we are able to generate sufficient and consistent levels of net investment income under our New Investment Strategy. If our regular distributions for the year exceed our net investment income and net realized capital gains, the difference will be distributed from our capital and will constitute a return of capital to our stockholders. A return of capital is generally not taxable and, instead, reduces a stockholder's tax basis in his shares of our common stock. A return of capital does also not necessarily reflect our investment performance and generally does not reflect income earned. The tax character of a distribution is determined based upon our total net investment income, net realized capital gains and distributions made with respect to a taxable year and, therefore, cannot be finally determined until after the close of the relevant taxable year. Distributions representing a return of capital also deplete our total assets available for investments. Due to the uncertainty of our current portfolio companies achieving a liquidity event and our ability to sell our positions at a gain following a liquidity event, as well as the uncertainty of when we may be able to generate sufficient net investment income from our New Investment Strategy, we can give no assurance that we will be able to earn net investment income or net realized capital gains during the year from which we can pay distributions. Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow us to pay distributions from year-to-year. Our ability to pay more than a minimum level of distributions will be based on our ability to invest our capital in securities of suitable portfolio companies in a timely manner, our portfolio companies achieving a liquidity event, our ability to sell our publicly traded portfolio positions at a gain, and our ability to implement our New Investment Strategy in a timely manner. There is no assurance that our current portfolio companies will complete an IPO, sale/merger or other liquidity event or that we will be able to realize any net capital gains from the sale of our publicly traded portfolio company investments. Our ability to pay distributions may also be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more risk factors described herein. Accordingly, no assurances can be made 36Table of Contentsthat we will make distributions to our stockholders in the future.In addition, any unrealized depreciation in our investment portfolio could be an indication that we will be unable to recover the cost of our investment when we sell it in the future. This could result in realized capital losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our net capital gains available for distribution in future periods.A portion of our distributions may constitute a return of capital and affect our stockholders’ tax basis in our shares.We plan to make distributions from any assets legally available for distribution and will be required to determine the extent to which such distributions are paid out of current or accumulated earnings, realized capital gains or are returns of capital. To the extent there is a return of capital, investors will be required to reduce their cost basis in our stock for federal tax purposes, which will result in higher tax liability when the shares are sold, even if they have not increased in value or have lost value.The market price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by our management or large stockholders.Sales of our shares of common stock by our officers or by large stockholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. Additionally, the price of our shares of common stock could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our common stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. Furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of its stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.