ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other "forward looking statements". Such "forward looking statements" involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected, and in the future could materially affect, actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other "forward looking statements". The securities offered hereby involve a substantial risk of loss. Prospective investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are those which management currently believes may significantly affect us. 1) WE INCURRED HISTORICAL LOSSES AS A RESULT, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE PROFITS, SUPPORT OUR OPERATIONS, OR ESTABLISH A RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL. We incurred net losses from our inception, February 8, 2008 to our fiscal year ended July 31, 2008 in the amount of $40,901. In addition, we expect to increase our operating expenses to fund our anticipated growth. We cannot assure you that any of our business strategies will be successful or that significant revenues or profitability will ever be achieved or, if they are achieved, that they can be consistently sustained or increased on a quarterly or annual basis. 2) WE EXPECT OUR OPERATING LOSSES TO CONTINUE We expect to incur increased operating expenses during the next year. The amount of net losses and the time required for us to reach and sustain profitability are uncertain. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with our business, including, but not limited to the increase in costs to be incurred for research and development, protection of our intellectual property and the marketing and delivery of our product. There can be no assurance that we will ever generate revenue or achieve profitability at all or on any substantial basis. 3) BECAUSE WE PROVIDE A SUITE OF ON-DEMAND APPLICATIONS THAT MANY OF OUR CUSTOMERS USE TO MANAGE THEIR CRITICAL BUSINESS PROCESSES, THE MARKET FOR OUR SERVICE MAY DEVELOP MORE SLOWLY THAN WE EXPECT. Our success will depend, to a large extent, on the willingness of Small and Medium Businesses ("SMBs") to accept on-demand services for applications that they view as critical to the success of their business. Many companies have invested substantial effort and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to a different application or to migrate these applications to on-demand services. Other factors that may affect market acceptance of our application include: * the security capabilities, reliability and availability of on-demand services; * customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, especially confidential or sensitive data; * our ability to minimize the time and resources required to implement our suite; * our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; * our ability to implement upgrades and other changes to our software without disrupting our service; * the level of customization or configuration we offer; 6 * our ability to provide rapid response time during periods of intense activity on customer websites; and * the price, performance and availability of competing products and services. The market for these services may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our business. 4) OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES, WHICH CAN BE CHALLENGING TO COST-EFFECTIVELY REACH, ACQUIRE AND RETAIN. We plan to market and sell our application suite to SMBs. To grow our revenue quickly, we must add new customers, sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to renew their subscriptions. However, selling to and retaining SMBs can be more difficult than selling to and retaining large enterprises because SMB customers: * are more price sensitive; * are more difficult to reach with traditional marketing campaigns; * have high churn rates in part because of the nature of their businesses; * may lack the staffing to benefit fully from our application suite's rich feature set; * often require higher sales, marketing and support expenditures by vendors that sell to them per revenue dollar; and * are more vulnerable to negative changes in the general economic environment that may disrupt continued business operations. If we are unable to cost-effectively market and sell our service to our target customers, our ability to grow our revenue quickly and become profitable will be harmed. 5) OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE OUR CURRENT BUSINESS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS, AND MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF YOUR INVESTMENT. Our company has been in existence since early 2008. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will be harmed, which may increase the risk to an investment in our securities. 6) OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS SUBSTANTIALLY ON CUSTOMERS RENEWING, UPGRADING AND EXPANDING THEIR SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR OUR SERVICES. ANY DECLINE IN OUR CUSTOMER RENEWALS, UPGRADES AND EXPANSIONS WOULD HARM OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. We will sell our application suite pursuant to service agreements that have a specific term and are not automatically renewable. Our ability to grow will be dependent in part on customers purchasing additional subscriptions after the term of their initial subscriptions. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers' spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. 7 7) IF OUR SECURITY MEASURES ARE BREACHED AND UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS IS OBTAINED TO A CUSTOMER'S DATA, WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT LIABILITIES, OUR SERVICE MAY BE PERCEIVED AS NOT BEING SECURE AND CUSTOMERS MAY CURTAIL OR STOP USING OUR SUITE. The services we plan to offer will involve the storage of large amounts of our customers' sensitive and proprietary information. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers' data, we could incur significant liability to our customers and to individuals or businesses whose information was being stored by our customers, our business may suffer and our reputation will be damaged. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. We do not have, and are likely not to have for the foreseeable future, insurance that will adequately cover any liability to a customer under these circumstances. 8) THE MARKET FOR OUR SERVICES IS INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED. The markets for online inventory solutions are intensely competitive and rapidly changing with relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our service to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. We expect to compete to sell our application suite against existing systems that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to install. Competition in our market is based principally upon service breadth and functionality; service performance, security and reliability; ability to tailor and customize services for a specific company, vertical or industry; ease of use of the service; speed and ease of deployment, integration and configuration; total cost of ownership, including price and implementation and support costs; professional services implementation; and financial resources of the vendor. Many of our actual and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied products and services and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. If we are not able to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. 9) THE MARKET FOR OUR SERVICES IS PRICE SENSITIVE, AND IF THE PRICES WE CHARGE FOR OUR SERVICES ARE UNACCEPTABLE TO OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER. Many of our potential customers are price sensitive, and we have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate prices for our services. As the market for our services matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model that we may have previously used. As a result, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could negatively impact our revenue, gross margin and operating results. 10) IF WE DO NOT EFFECTIVELY BUILD AND TRAIN OUR DIRECT SALES FORCE AND OUR SERVICES AND SUPPORT TEAMS, OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS WILL SUFFER. We plan to build our direct sales force and our services and support teams both domestically and internationally to increase our customer base and revenue. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales, service and support personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our 8 success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business. If our efforts to build a direct sales force are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed. 11) IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP NEW SERVICES OR SELL OUR SERVICES INTO NEW MARKETS, OUR REVENUE WILL NOT GROW AS EXPECTED. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing application suite and to introduce new services and sell into new markets. The success of any enhancement or new service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or service. Any new service we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Any new markets, into which we attempt to sell our application, including new vertical markets and new countries or regions, may not be receptive. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new services, enhance our existing services to meet customer requirements or sell our services into new markets, our revenue will not grow as expected. 12) BECAUSE WE PLAN TO DEVELOP A GLOBAL ORGANIZATION AND OUR LONG-TERM SUCCESS DEPENDS, IN PART, ON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND THE SALES OF OUR SERVICES TO CUSTOMERS LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, OUR BUSINESS IS SUSCEPTIBLE TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS. We currently maintain offices outside of the United States and plan to have sales personnel or independent consultants in several countries throughout the world. Managing a global organization will be difficult, time consuming and expensive. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks that not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: * localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; * lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; * longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts; receivable; * difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; * fluctuations in currency exchange rates; * potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; * dependence on certain third parties, including channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; * the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; * increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; * political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist related risks and security concerns in general; and * reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. 9 Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. 13) ASSERTIONS BY A THIRD PARTY THAT WE INFRINGE ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WHETHER SUCCESSFUL OR NOT, COULD SUBJECT US TO COSTLY AND TIME-CONSUMING LITIGATION OR EXPENSIVE LICENSES. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition and become a publicly traded company, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us may grow. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, many of our service agreements require us to indemnify our customers for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from subscribing to our services or could expose us to litigation for these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention and financial resources. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our suite to our customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute services that do not infringe. For any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party's rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, may significantly increase our operating expenses or may require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. 14) MATERIAL DEFECTS OR ERRORS IN THE SOFTWARE WE USE TO DELIVER OUR SERVICES COULD HARM OUR REPUTATION, MAY CAUSE US TO BECOME LIABLE TO OUR CUSTOMERS, MAY RESULT IN THE LOSS OF EXISTING CUSTOMERS, OR MAY RESULT IN A SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO US AND IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR SERVICES. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our service, and new errors in our existing service may be detected in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: * a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; * sales credits or refunds to our customers; * loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; * diversion of development resources; * harm to our reputation; and * increased warranty and insurance costs. 10 Since customers that will use our suite will do so to manage critical aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our suite, whether in connection with the day-to-day operation of our suite, upgrades or otherwise, could damage our customers' businesses. Any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance related issues regarding our suite may result in customers electing to terminate or to not renew any existing subscriptions, or delay or withhold payment to us which may result in a significant loss for the Company. Customers may also make warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or costly litigation. We do not maintain and do not expect to maintain in the foreseeable future, insurance to adequately cover these risks. 15) GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE INTERNET AND E-COMMERCE IS EVOLVING, AND UNFAVORABLE CHANGES OR OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies may become more likely. For example, the need for increased regulation in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information has been suggested by a number of politicians and if enacted could affect our customers' ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for ERP, CRM and e-commerce solutions and restricting our ability to store, process and share our customers' data. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. 