Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objective. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face, and we may face other risks that we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We are a new company with a limited operating history and are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective. We were initially formed in May 2008. As a result, we have limited financial information on which you can evaluate an investment in our company or our prior performance. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially or become worthless. Although we anticipate that it may take an additional 12 to 24 months to invest substantially all of the proceeds from our continuous public offering in our targeted investments, because of our relatively small size and limited operating history, we may be unable to identify and fund investments that meet our criteria. Until we are able to invest such net proceeds in suitable investments, we will invest in temporary investments, such as cash, cash equivalents, certificates of deposit, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less, which we expect will earn only nominal yields. Since we do not expect to generate significant interest or dividend income on our portfolio company investments, our ability to make distributions in our initial years of operation will be based on our ability to invest our capital in suitable portfolio companies in a timely manner and to sell our interests in these portfolio companies at a gain after they become public. Further, the base management fee payable to our investment adviser, Keating Investments, will not be reduced while our assets are invested in such temporary investments. We are dependent upon key management personnel of Keating Investments, our investment adviser, for our future success, particularly Timothy J. Keating, Ranjit P. Mankekar, Kyle L. Rogers and Frederic M. Schweiger. If we lose any member of Keating Investments’ senior management team, our ability to implement our business strategy could be significantly harmed. We depend on the experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our investment adviser’s senior investment professionals. The senior investment professionals, together with other investment professionals that Keating Investments currently retains or may subsequently retain, will identify, evaluate, negotiate, structure, close, monitor and service our investments. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of Keating Investments’ senior investment professionals, Timothy J. Keating, who is also the Chairman of our Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, Ranjit P. Mankekar, who is also our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and a member of our Board of Directors, Kyle L. Rogers, who is also our Chief Investment Officer and Frederic M. Schweiger, w ho is also our Chief Operating Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary. The departure of any of these senior investment professionals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. None of Messrs. Keating, Mankekar, Rogers and Schweiger is subject to an employment contract. We do not carry key-man life insurance on the lives of Messrs. Keating, Mankekar, Rogers or Schweiger. The amount of any distributions we may make is uncertain. Our distribution proceeds may exceed our net ordinary income and realized net capital gains, particularly during the period before we have substantially invested the net proceeds from our continuous public offering or realized any net capital gains from the disposition of our investments, and thus portions of the distributions that we make may represent a return of capital. We may not be able to pay you distributions, and our distributions may not grow over time. Distributions to stockholders will be payable only when and as declared by our Board of Directors and will be paid out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a targeted level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our net ordinary income and realized net capital gains, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable business development company regulations and such other factors as our Board of Directors may d eem relevant from time to time. Distributions may also be paid during the year that exceed our net ordinary income and realized net capital gains and thus would constitute a return of your capital. We cannot assure you that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future. In the event that we encounter delays in locating suitable investment opportunities or in selling our portfolio investments, we may pay all or a substantial portion of our distributions from the proceeds of our continuous public offering in anticipation of future cash flow, which may constitute a return of your capital and will lower your tax basis in our shares. Distributions from the proceeds of our continuous public offering also could reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in portfolio companies. Until we are able to pay distributions from net capital gains realized from the sale of our investments, and we can give no assurance as to when we will begin to realize any net capital gains from the sale of o ur portfolio company investments, if ever, we may pay distributions that represent a return of capital to you; however, we will not make any distributions representing a return of capital which would result in a total return of capital in excess of 10% of our total offering proceeds (i.e., the total gross proceeds received from the sale of our common stock). 39 Our investment adviser and its management have no prior experience managing a business development company. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of eligible portfolio companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. These constraints may hinder our investment adviser’s ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. In addition, the senior investment professionals of Keating Investments have no prior experience managing a business development company, and the investment philosophy and techniques used by Keating Investments may differ from those private investments in smaller public companies with which Keati ng Investments’ senior investment professionals have experience. Accordingly, we can offer no assurance that we will replicate the historical performance of other companies with which Keating Investments’ senior investment professionals have been affiliated, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by such other companies. Our business model depends upon the development and maintenance of strong referral relationships with investment banking firms, professional services firms and private equity and venture capital funds. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms or other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our portfolio and achieve our investment objective. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to inform us of investment opportunities and therefore such relationships may not lead to the origination of portfolio company investments. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital. As a business development company, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks and may result in dilution to our current stockholders. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of us and our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the perce ntage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and you might experience dilution. We may in the future issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when suc h sales may be disadvantageous. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would have separate voting rights and might have rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. 40 Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. Upon approval of a majority of our stockholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a business development company. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify as a business development company, we may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly increase our costs of doing business and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. Our ability to grow will depend on our ability to raise capital. We will need to access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. An inability to successfully access the capital markets could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any. In the event we borrow money, the potential for loss on amounts invested would be magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies, and other lenders. Lenders of these senior securities will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders and we would expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make distribut ions to our stockholders. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the management fee payable to our investment adviser, Keating Investments, will be payable based on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, Keating Investments will have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders’ interests. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to Keating Investments. As a business development company, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. If this ratio declines below 200%, we may not be able to incur additional debt and could be required by law to sell a portion of our investments to repay some debt when it is disadvantageous to do so, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and we may not be able to make distributions. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our investment adviser’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms a cceptable to us. Any borrowings by us will require the approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, any debt facility into which we may enter would likely impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that would hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain RIC status under Subchapter M of the Code. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. Although Keating Investments has been an investment adviser registered under the Advisors Act since 2001, it has no prior experience in managing a business development company. Further, as discussed above, we are a recently organized company with a limited operating history. As such, we and our investment adviser are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the lack of experience in managing or operating a business development company. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, analyze, invest in and finance companies that meet our investment criteria. Although we anticipate that it may take an additional 12 to 24 months to invest substantially all of the net proceeds from our continuous public offering in our targeted investments, because of our relatively small size and limited operating history, we may be unable to identify and fund investments that meet our criteria. Until we are able to invest such net proceeds in suitable investments, we will invest in temporary investments, such as cash, cash equivalents, certificates of deposit, U.S. government securities and other high-quality debt investments that mature in one year or less, which we expect will earn only nominal yields. Since we do not expect to generate significant interest or dividend income on our portfolio company investments, our ability to make distributions in our initial years of operati on will be based on our ability to invest our capital in suitable portfolio companies in a timely manner and to sell our interests in these portfolio companies at a gain after they become public. 41 Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our investment adviser’s proper structuring and implementation of the investment process, its ability to identify and evaluate companies that meet our investment criteria, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior investment professionals of Keating Investments have substantial responsibilities under the Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. In order to grow, we and our investment adviser may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditi on and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with a number of business development companies and other investment funds (including private equity funds and venture capital funds), reverse merger and special purpose acquisition company (“SPACs”) sponsors, investment bankers which underwrite initial public offerings, hedge funds that invest in private investments in public equity (“PIPE”), traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks, and other sources of financing. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or di fferent risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than we can. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company and, as a result, such companies may be more successful in completing their investments. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. A significant portion of our investment portfolio will not have a readily determinable market value and will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors and, as a result, there is and will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value as determined by our Board of Directors and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Typically, there is not a public market for the securities of the privately held companies in which we intend to invest. As a result, we will value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to comparable publicly-traded companies and transactions, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize upon the sale of one or more of our investments. Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the base management fee and, in certain circumstances, the incentive fee will still be payable. The annual base management fee is calculated as 2.0% of the value of our gross assets at a specific time. Accordingly, the management fee is payable regardless of whether the value of our gross assets and/or your investment has decreased. Moreover, the incentive fee payable to our investment adviser is calculated annually based upon our realized capital gains, computed net of realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on a cumulative basis. As a result, we may owe our investment adviser an incentive fee during one year as a result of realized capital gains on certain investments, and then later incur significant realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation on the remaining investments in our portfolio during subsequent years. 42 We will remain subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Code. Although we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a RIC during 2010 and will elect to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code for our 2010 taxable year, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to qualify for and maintain RIC status in future years. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. ● The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our investment company taxable income (which is generally our net ordinary income plus the excess, if any, of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses)(the “Annual Distribution Requirement”). Since we will not use debt financing, we will not be able to borrow money to make distributions necessary to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement and, as a result, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. ● The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. ● The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies or in public companies whose securities may not trade actively in the secondary markets, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. Although we currently do not intend to borrow money, we are allowed to use debt financing to raise cash to meet the diversifi cation requirements at the end of any quarter. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the amount of our distributions. We may in the future decide to retain some or all of our realized net capital gains, including amounts we intend to retain to pay incentive fees to our investment adviser, which may result in a deemed distribution to our stockholders. Although we currently intend to distribute the amount of any realized net capital gains, reduced by any incentive fees payable to our investment adviser, to our stockholders at least annually, we may in the future decide to retain some or all of our realized net capital gains. In the event we retain some or all of our realized net capital gains, including amounts we intend to retain to pay incentive fees to our investment adviser, we will likely designate the retained amount as a deemed distribution to stockholders. In such case, among other consequences, we will pay corporate-level tax on the retained amount, each U.S. stockholder will be required to include its share of the deemed distribution in income as if it had been actually distributed to the U.S. stockholder, and the U.S. stockholder will be entitled to claim a credit or refu nd equal to its allocable share of the corporate-level tax we pay on the retained realized net capital gains. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. Distributions to stockholders will be payable only when and as declared by our Board of Directors and will be paid out of assets legally available for distribution. On February 11, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a special cash distribution of $0.13 cents per share. The distribution was paid on February 17, 2011 to our stockholders of record as of February 15, 2011. As of the record date, there were 3,437,212 shares of common stock outstanding resulting in a cash distribution totaling approximately $446,837. This special cash distribution was paid based on the unrealized appreciation we had recorded on our NeoPhotonics investment and, as such, will be initially treated as a return of capital to our stockholders. However, in the event we are able to sell all or a portion of our NeoPhotonics common shares at a gain during 2011 after the expiration of our six-month lock-up period, all or a portion of this special distribution may be reclassified at year end as a capital gain distribution to our stockholders. We provide no assurance that we will be able to sell all or any portion of our NeoPhotonics common shares during 2011 and, even if such shares are sold, there is no assurance that we will be able to realize a gain on such sale. 43 While we paid a $0.13 per share cash distribution to our stockholders on February 17, 2011 based on the unrealized appreciation we had recorded on our NeoPhotonics investment, which will be initially treated as a return of capital to our stockholders, we may not be able to pay any future distributions unless we are able to generate net capital gains realized from the sale of our portfolio company investments. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. While we may receive investment income in the form of interest and dividends from our portfolio company investments prior to conversion, such investment income is not expected to be significant and is not likely t o exceed our operating expenses, in which case we do not expect to generate net ordinary income which would be available for distribution to our stockholders in the near future. As a result, we expect that our primary source of distributions will be from net capital gains realized from the sale of our portfolio company investments. The timing of any capital gains generated from the appreciation and sale of portfolio companies cannot be predicted, and we do not expect to generate capital gains on a level or uniform basis from quarter to quarter. This may result in substantial fluctuations in our distributions to our stockholders. We do not anticipate generating net ordinary income to distribute to our stockholders in the near future, and if we do make distributions, they will likely be paid from our realized net capital gains or may represent a return of capital. Our primary emphasis is to attempt to generate capital gains from the sale of our investments in micro-cap and small-cap companies. While a portion of our investments may, at any given time, include a component of interest or dividends, we do not expect to generate significant current yield on our portfolio company investments. To date, none of our portfolio company investments have generated, nor are they expected to generate, interest or dividend income. Additionally, any investment income we may receive in the form of interest and dividends from our portfolio company investments prior to conversion is not likely to exceed our operating expenses, in which case we do not expect to generate net ordinary income which would be available for distribution to our stockholders. We do not expect th at our interest and dividend income from portfolio company investments would be sufficient to generate net ordinary income. However, if we are able to generate net ordinary income, we intend to distribute such net ordinary income to stockholders. Because we do not expect to generate net ordinary income, we expect that our primary source of distributions will be from net capital gains realized from the sale of our portfolio company investments. The timing of any capital gains generated from the appreciation and sale of portfolio companies cannot be predicted, and we do not expect to generate capital gains on a level or uniform basis from quarter to quarter. Distributions from realized net capital gains will typically be declared and paid at least annually. However, we may declare and pay periodic distributions which, in the aggregate, would be an estimate of the total net capital gains expected to be realized throughout the year. During the pendency of our continuous public offering, we may also declare and pay periodic distributions in an amoun t reflecting all or a portion of any net unrealized appreciation on investments recorded on our books which, depending on the timing and amount of actual realization, may represent a return of capital. Our distributions may exceed our net ordinary income and realized net capital gains and thus represent a return of capital, particularly during the period before we have substantially invested the net proceeds from our continuous public offering or realized any net capital gains from the disposition of our portfolio company investments. We can give no assurance as to when we will begin to realize any net capital gains from the sale of our assets, if ever. Distributions that represent a return of capital may lower your tax basis in our shares, or may be treated as a gain from the sale of such shares to the extent that such distributions exceed the basis in such shares, and reduce the amount of funds we have for investment in targeted assets. Distributions representing a return of capital will not reduce the number of shares of common stock that you own in us. We will not make any distributions representing a return of capital which would result in a total return of capital in excess of 10% of our total offering proceeds (i.e., the total gross proceeds received from the sale of our common stock). We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. Because in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs. For example, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. 44 Our quarterly and annual operating results will be subject to fluctuation as a result of the nature of our business, and if we fail to achieve our investment objective, the net asset value of our common stock may decline. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the interest rates and dividend rates payable on our debt securities and preferred stock investments, respectively, the default rate on any such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. In addition, negative economic conditions may cause such default rates to be greater than they otherwise would be during a period of economic growth. The primary source of our distributions will be from net capital gains realized from the sale of our portfolio company investments, the timing of which we cannot predict and, as a result, we will likely have substantial fluctuations in our distributions from quarter to quarter. We intend to invest principally in equity securities, including convertible preferred securities and debt securities convertible into equity securities, of primarily micro-cap and small-cap companies. Our primary emphasis will be to generate capital gains through the sale of our equity investments in such micro-cap and small-cap companies, which we expect to become public reporting companies with their securities being quoted on either a junior exchange or senior exchange. We do not expect the securities in our publicly traded portfolio companies quoted on a junior exchange to initially have an active secondary trading market and, as such, these securities will be illiquid until an active market develops. We believe that typically this liquidity will develop in conjunction with an upgrade to a senior exchange listing, which may not occur until 12 to 18 months after our investment is made, if at all. However, there can be no assurance that our portfolio companies will obtain either a junior exchange or senior exchange listing or, even if a listing is obtained, that an active trading market will ever develop in the securities of our publicly traded portfolio companies. Even if our portfolio companies are successful in becoming publicly traded companies, there is no assurance that they will be able to achieve their projected revenue and earnings targets or effectively maintain their status as public reporting companies. In such case, there may be little or no demand for the securities of our portfolio companies in the public markets, we may have difficulty disposing of our investments, and the value of our investments may decline substantially. Since our distributions are expected to be paid principally from net capital gains realized from the sale of our portfolio investments, we do not expect to be able to pay distributions on a level or uniform basis from quarter-to-quarter. Distributions from realized net capital gains will typically be declared and paid at least annually. We may have substantial fluctuations in our distribution payments to stockholders, since we expect to have an average holding period for our portfolio company investments of one to three years and we may not generate any realized net capital gains during our initial years of operations. Our ability to pay distributions in our initial years of operation will be based on our ability to invest our capital in suitable portfolio companies in a timely manner. However, we may declare and pay periodic distributions which, in the aggregate, would be an estimate of the total net capital gains expected to be realized throughout the year. During the pendency of our continuous public offering, we may also declare and pay periodic distributions in an amount reflecting all or a portion of any net unrealized appreciation on investments recorded on our books which, depending on the timing and amount of actual realization, may represent a return of capital. Our distributions may exceed our net ordinary income and realized net capital gains and thus represent a return of capital, particularly during the period before we have substantially invested the net proceeds from our continuous public offering or realized any net capital gains from the disposition of our portfolio company investments. We can give no assurance as to when we will begin to realize any net capital gains from the sale of our assets, if ever. Distributions representing a return of capital will not reduce the number of shares of common stock that you own in us. We will not make any distributions representing a return of capital which would result in a total return of capital in excess of 10% of our total offering proceeds (i.e., the total gross proceeds received from the sale of our common stock). There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and any that may be retained in the future, and the current and future members and senior investment professionals of our investment adviser, may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates that may be formed in the future. Accordingly, if this occurs, it may give rise to certain conflicts of interest in evaluating the suitability of investment opportunities of ours and the allocation of investment opportunities between us and other investment funds managed by Keating Investments and its affiliates. Additionally, our officers, directors, and the members and senior investment professionals of Keating Investments may have obligations to inve stors in those other investment funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to resolve all conflicts of interest in our favor, and conflicts of interest may arise that can be resolved only through the exercise by our management and our independent directors of their best business judgment as may be consistent with their fiduciary duties. We expect that our management and our independent directors will attempt to resolve conflicts in a fair and equitable manner taking into account factors that would include the investment objective, amount of assets under management and available for investment in new portfolio companies, portfolio composition and return expectations of us and any other entity, and other factors deemed appropriate. 45 In the course of our investing activities, we will pay investment advisory and incentive fees to Keating Investments, as our investment adviser, and will reimburse Keating Investments for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis (after deduction of applicable sales loads) and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than an investor might achieve through direct investments. Accordingly, there may be times when the senior investment professionals of Keating Investments have interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Currently, our investment adviser’s senior investment professionals, Messrs. Keating, Mankekar, Rogers and Schweiger, and the other investment professionals currently retained by Keating Investments, do not serve as principals of other investment funds affiliated with Keating Investments; however, they may do so in the future. If they do, persons and entities may in the future manage investment funds with investment objectives similar to ours. Accordingly, we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by investment funds managed by advisers affiliated with Keating Investments. In addition, Keating Investments’ investment professionals may, in the future, devote a substantial portion of their time to the business and affairs of other investment funds managed by Kea ting Investments and its affiliates. In such event, we intend to have our independent directors review our investment adviser’s performance periodically, but not less than annually, to assure that Keating Investments is fulfilling its obligations to us under the Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement and that any conflicts are handled in a fair and equitable manner. In connection with the consummation of our initial private placement, we entered into a license agreement with our investment adviser, pursuant to which our investment adviser granted us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Keating.” Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the “Keating” name and logo for so long as Keating Investments or one of its affiliates remains our investment adviser. In addition, we pay Keating Investments, our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Keating Investments in performing its obligations under the Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement, including our allocable portion of the cost of our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and their respective staff. These arrangements may create conflicts of interest t hat our Board of Directors must monitor. Our Board of Directors may be authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of common stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners. Under Maryland General Corporation Law, our Board of Directors is permitted to reclassify any authorized but unissued shares of common stock into one or more classes of preferred stock. If the Board of Directors undertakes such a reclassification, it is required to file Articles of Incorporation Supplementary, which include, among other things, a description of the stock and a statement that the stock has been reclassified by the Board of Directors under authority contained in the charter. The Board of Directors is not required to make a specific finding prior to approving a reclassification, though we would generally expect the Board of Directors to determine, at a minimum, that any reclassification was in our best interests. In the event that our Board of Directors opts to reclassify a portion of our unissued shares of common stock into a class of preferred stock, those preferred shares would have a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation, which would reduce the amount distributable to our common stockholders. The cost of any such reclassification would be borne by our existing common stockholders. The class voting rights of any preferred shares we may issue could make it more difficult for us to take some actions that may, in the future, be proposed by the Board of Directors and/or the holders of our common stock, such as a merger, exchange of securities, liquidation, or alteration of the rights of a class of our securities, if these actions were perceived by the holders of preferred shares as not in their best interests. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. 46 Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice (except as required by the 1940 Act) and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a business development company. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. Keating Investments and its affiliates, including our officers and some of our directors, will face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and our affiliates, which could result in actions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. Keating Investments and its affiliates will receive substantial fees from us in return for their services, and these fees could influence the advice provided to us. Among other matters, the compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to public offerings of equity by us, which allow the dealer manager to earn additional dealer manager fees and Keating Investments to earn increased asset management fees. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We are, and our portfolio companies will be, subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Any change in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. If legislation is enacted, new rules are adopted, or existing rules are materially amended, we may change our investment strategy. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K and may result in our investment focus shifting. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law, our charter and our bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of us or the removal of our directors. Our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any other person, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our Board of Directors, including approval by a majority of our disinterested directors. If the resolution exempting business combinations is repealed or our Board of Directors does not approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act may discourage third parties from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such an offer. Our bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act acquisi tions of our stock by any person. If we amend our bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Control Share Acquisition Act, the Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating such a transaction. We have also adopted measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our charter authorizing our Board of Directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, and to amend our charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our charter and bylaws, may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our investment adviser can resign on 120 days’ notice and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our investment adviser, Keating Investments, has the right, under our current Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 120 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our investment adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 120 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and inv estment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. 47 Our Board of Directors (including the independent directors) is expected to consider the renewal of our Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement with Keating Investments for an additional year at its meeting scheduled for March 2011. If for any reason our independent directors elect not to renew our Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement by May 14, 2011, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise. To the extent that we do not realize net ordinary income or choose to distribute any realized net capital gains, we will have a greater need for additional capital to fund our investments and operating expenses. As a RIC, we must annually distribute at least 90 percent of our investment company taxable income as a dividend and may either distribute or retain our realized net capital gains from investments. As a result, these earnings may not be available to fund investments or to pay operating expenses. If we fail to generate realized net capital gains or to obtain additional funds, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to make follow-on and new investments. Because of the structure and objectives of our business, and since we typically do not receive significant interest and preferred dividends on our portfolio company investments, we expect to incur operating losses and will need to rely on proceeds from sales of investments, rather than on interest and dividend i ncome, to pay our operating expenses. There is no assurance that we will be able to sell our investments and thereby fund our operating expenses. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of a majority of the independent members of our Board of Directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we will generally be prohibited from buying or selling any securities from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our Board of Directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our Board of Directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by Keating Investments without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We are uncertain of our sources for funding our future capital needs; if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. The net proceeds from the sale of shares will be used for our investment opportunities, operating expenses and for payment of various fees and expenses such as base management fees, incentive fees and other fees. Any working capital reserves we maintain may not be sufficient for investment purposes, and we may require debt or equity financing to operate. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for investments or for any other reason, these sources of funding may not be available to us. Consequently, if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. As a result, we would be less able to achieve portfolio diversification and our investment objective, which may negatively impact our res ults of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC. We believe that complying with these rules and regulations may make some activities time-consuming and costly and may divert significant attention of our investment adviser’s senior investment professionals from implementing our investment objective to these and related matters. 48 The impact of recent financial reform legislation on us is uncertain. In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act became effective on July 21, 2010, although many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have delayed effectiveness or will not become effective until the relevant federal agencies issue new rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Act may have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect the Dodd-Frank Act or implementing its regulations will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Portfolio Company Investments Uncertain economic conditions may continue to adversely affect the capital markets and may reduce the availability of debt and equity capital for the micro-cap and small-cap companies we intend to target. These conditions may make it more difficult for us to achieve our investment objective and may have a greater impact on the micro-cap and small-cap companies we intend to target. This may adversely affect the financial condition and operating results of certain micro-cap and small-cap companies in which we may invest, as well as reduce the availability of attractive micro-cap and small-cap targets for potential investment. The generally uncertain economic situation, together with the possibility of continuing limited availability of debt and equity capital, including through bank financing, may have a disproportionate impact on the micro-cap and small-cap companies we intend to target for investment. As a result, we may experience a reduction in attractive investment opportunities in prospective portfolio companies that fit our investment criteria. In addition, our debt and equity investments in portfolio companies could be impaired to the extent such portfolio companies experience financial difficulties arising out of the current uncertain economic environment. Our inability to locate attractive investment opportunities, or the impairment of our portfolio investments as a result of economic conditions, could have a mate rial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our equity and debt investments in the companies that we are targeting may be extremely risky and we could lose all or part of our investments. The convertible unsecured or subordinated debt that we will invest in as a part of our investments will not be rated by any rating agency, but we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade (rated lower than “Baa3” by Moody’s or lower than “BBB-” by Standard & Poor’s), which investments are commonly referred to as “junk.” Indebtedness of below investment grade quality is regarded as having predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal and is, therefore, commonly subject to additional risks. We expect our investments will also include equity securities, including preferred securities convertible into common stock. We also may receive warrants as part of our debt and equity investments. These debt and equity investments will entail additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. In addition, investment in the micro-cap and small-cap companies that we are targeting involves a number of significant risks, including: ● They may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations, which may lead to bankruptcy or liquidation and the loss of our investment. ● They typically have limited operating histories, narrower, less established product lines or offerings and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions, market conditions, operational risks and consumer sentiment in respect of their products or services, as well as general economic downturns. ● At the time of our investment, since they are primarily privately owned, there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, although Keating Investments’ investment professionals and agents will perform “due diligence” investigations on these portfolio companies, their operations and their prospects, we may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses. ● They are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. ● Since part of our investment process requires that these companies become publicly traded companies, they will need resources, processes, procedures and systems to satisfy the additional regulatory burdens, they will incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, recently adopted corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC, and they may not be able to attract retail and institutional investor interest in the secondary market, all of which may have a material adverse impact on our portfolio companies and, in turn, on us. 49 A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under any debt securities that we hold and render our equity investments in that portfolio company worthless. In addition, a substantial portion of our investments will be in the form of equity, which will generally rank below any debt issued by our portfolio companies. Even if our portfolio companies are successful in becoming publicly traded companies, there is no assurance that they will be able to achieve their projected revenue and earnings targets or effectively maintain their status as public reporting companies. In such case, there may be little or no demand for the securities of our portfolio companies in the public markets, we may have difficulty disposing of our investments, and the value of our investments may decline substantially. Our incentive fee may induce Keating Investments, our investment adviser, to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to Keating Investments may create an incentive for Keating Investments to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. As our investment strategy is based primarily on equity investing and as Keating Investments’ incentive fee is based upon the capital gains realized on our investments, the investment adviser will invest more in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt, or issue other equity securities that rank equally with, or senior to, our investments. By their terms, such instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of dividends, interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of our investments. These debt instruments will usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest or dividends on or repaying our investments in the event and during the continuance of a default under such debt. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company will typically be entitled to receive payment in full b efore we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such holders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of securities ranking equally with our investments, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other security holders in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. We may not realize any income or gains from our equity investments. We intend to invest a substantial portion of our portfolio in equity securities, including convertible preferred securities and debt securities convertible into equity securities, of our portfolio companies. We may also receive warrants as part of our investments. These equity interests we acquire may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value if the company fails to perform financially or achieve its growth objectives. We will generally have little, if any, control over the timing of any gains we may realize from our equity investments since the securities of our portfolio companies may have restrictions on their transfer or may not have an active trading market. Equity investments also have experienced significantly more volatility in their returns and may under perform relative to fixed-income securities during certain periods. An adverse event, such as an unfavorable earnings report, may depress the value. Also, prices of equity investments are sensitive to general movements in the stock market and a drop in the stock market may depress the price of common stock investments to which we have exposure. Equity prices fluctuate for several reasons including changes in investors' perceptions of the financial condition of an issuer or the general condition of the relevant stock market, or when political or economic events affecting the issuers occur. In addition, common stock prices may be particularly sensitive to rising interest rates, as the cost of capital rises and borrowing costs increase.< /font> 50 Since we intend to invest principally in equity securities, including convertible preferred securities and debt securities convertible into equity securities, of primarily micro-cap and small-cap companies, our primary emphasis will be to generate capital gains through our equity investments in portfolio companies. Accordingly, although we may in limited cases receive current income in the form of interest payments on our convertible debt investments and dividend payments on our convertible preferred equity investments, the primary source of distributions we may pay to our stockholders will likely be from the net capital gains generated from the sale of our equity investments upon conversion of our convertible securities, the timing of which we cannot predict. We do not expect to generate capital gains from the s ale of our portfolio investments on a level or uniform basis from quarter to quarter. While our investments will typically be made in private companies, we expect that these companies will become public reporting companies with their common stock being initially quoted on either a junior exchange or senior exchange. We do not expect the preferred equity of our portfolio companies to be listed or quoted on an exchange or quotation system. We also do not expect the common stock in our publicly traded portfolio companies listed on a junior exchange to initially have a large number of freely tradable shares available for sale or an active secondary trading market and, as such, the common stock will be illiquid until an active market develops. We believe that typically this liquidity will develop in conjunction with a senior exchange listing upgrade which may not occur until 12 to 18 months after our investment i s made, if at all. Our convertible preferred stock instruments will generally provide for conversion upon the portfolio companies’ achievement of certain milestone events, including a qualified public offering and/or a senior exchange listing for their common stock. However, there can be no assurance that our portfolio companies will obtain either a junior or senior exchange listing or, even if a listing is obtained, that an active trading market will ever develop in the common stock of our publicly traded portfolio companies. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize capital gains from our equity interests, and any capital gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Furthermore, due to the expected growth of our portfolio companies, we do not generally expect to receive dividend income from our common stock investments. In the case of cumulative preferred stock, there is no assurance that any dividends will ever be paid by a portfolio company. Our portfolio may be focused in a limited number of portfolio companies, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if the business or market position of these companies deteriorates. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our RIC diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be focused in relatively few portfolio companies or market segments. As a result, a market downturn affecting one of our portfolio companies or one of these market segments could materially adversely affect us. We expect to concentrate our investments in micro-cap and small-cap companies, which are subject to many risks, including periodic downturns. We expect to concentrate our investments in what we believe are public ready micro-cap and small-cap companies. Under negative economic conditions, this could cause our investment performance to be worse than business development companies with no such concentration. We may avoid purchasing certain securities in certain micro-cap and small-cap companies when it is otherwise advantageous to purchase those securities or may sell certain securities of micro-cap and small-cap companies when it is otherwise advantageous to hold those securities. In general, our focus on micro-cap and small-cap companies may affect our exposure to certain market segments, which may affect our financial performance — positively or negatively — depending on whether these segments are in or out of favor. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of micro-cap and small-cap companies, can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. There is no assurance that decreases in market capitalizations will not occur, or that any decreases in valuations will be insubstantial or temporary in nature. Also, our portfolio companies may face considerably more risk of loss and may not have the same returns as companies in other industry sectors due to their growth nature. Even if our portfolio companies are successful in becoming publicly-traded companies, there is no assurance that they will be able to achieve their projected revenue and earnings targets or effectively maintain their status as public reporting companies. In such case, there may be little or no demand for the securities of our portfolio companies in the public markets, we may have difficulty disposing of our investments, and the value of our investments may decline substantially. 51 The value of our portfolio securities may not have a readily available market price and, in such case, we will value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors, which valuation is inherently subjective and may not reflect what we may actually realize for the sale of the investment. The value of our portfolio securities may not have readily available market prices. In such cases, we will value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based upon the recommendation of the Board of Director's Valuation Committee. In connection with that determination, investment professionals from our investment adviser will prepare portfolio company valuations using the most recently available portfolio company financial statements and forecasts. The Board of Directors will also utilize the services of a third-party valuation firm, which will periodically prepare valuations for each of our portfolio investments for which no market quotations are readily available. The participation of Keating Investments in our valuation process could result in a conflict of interest as Keating Investments’ management fee is based, in part, on our gross assets. However, the Board of Directors will retain ultimate authority as to the appropriate valuation of each investment. Because such valuations are inherently subjective and may be based on estimates, assumptions and forecasts, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be determined if a readily available market price for these securities existed. In addition, the valuation of these types of securities may result in substantial write-downs and excessive earnings volatility. Even if the equity securities of our public portfolio companies may be sold in the public markets, we expect these securities will initially be thinly traded and, as a result, the lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business, and will delay distributions of gains, if any. While our investments will typically be made in private companies, we expect that, as part of our investment process, these companies will become public reporting companies with their common stock initially being quoted on either a junior exchange or senior exchange. We do not expect the preferred equity of our portfolio companies to be listed or quoted on an exchange or quotation system. We do not expect the common stock in our public portfolio companies listed on a junior exchange to initially have an active secondary trading market and, as such, these securities will be illiquid until an active market develops. We believe that typically this liquidity will develop in conjunction with a senior exchange listing upgrade, which we do not expect to occur until 12 to 18 months after our investment is made, if at all. 160;Our convertible preferred stock instruments will generally provide for conversion upon the portfolio companies’ achievement of certain milestone events, including a senior exchange listing for their common stock. However, there can be no assurance that our portfolio companies will obtain either a junior exchange or senior exchange listing or, even if a listing is obtained, that an active trading market will ever develop in the securities of our publicly traded portfolio companies. We expect substantially all of the common stock we purchase in a portfolio company will be “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”). As restricted securities, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and in accordance with any applicable state securities laws. Typically, we will seek to obtain registration rights in connection with our purchase of equity investments in a portfolio company. As such, the portfolio company will generally be required to file a resale registration statement under the Securities Act to register for resale the shares of common stock we acquire. Notwithstanding such registration rights, we will be largely unable to control the timing of completion of any such registration process given external factors beyond our control. Even if a resale registration statement is declared effective, there can be no assurances that the occurrence of subsequent events may not preclude a portfolio company’s ability to maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement. Any of the foregoing items could have adverse effects on the liquidity of our sha res of common stock. In addition, the SEC has disclosed that it has developed internal guidelines concerning the use of a resale registration statement to register the securities issued to certain investors in PIPE transactions, where the issuer has a market capitalization of less than $75 million and, in general, does not qualify to file a registration statement on Form S-3 to register its securities. The SEC has indicated its position that these smaller issuers may not be able to rely on Rule 415 under the Securities Act (“Rule 415”), which generally permits the offer and sale of securities by selling stockholders on a continued or delayed basis over a period of time, but instead would require that the issuer offer and sell such securities in a direct or "primary" public offering, at a fixed price, if the facts and circumstances are such t hat the SEC believes the investors seeking to have their shares registered are underwriters and/or affiliates of the issuer. We believe that the SEC in most cases would permit a registration for resale of up to one third of the total number of shares of common stock then currently owned by persons who are not affiliates of such issuer and, in some cases, a larger percentage depending on the facts and circumstances. SEC staff members also have indicated that an issuer in most cases will have to wait until the later of six months after effectiveness of the first registration or such time as substantially all securities registered in the first registration are sold before filing a subsequent registration on behalf of the same investors. Since our portfolio companies will have little or no tradable shares of common stock, it is unclear as to how many, if any, shares of common stock the SEC will permit our portfolio companies to register for resale. The SEC may require as a condition to the declaration of effectiveness of a resale registration statement that we reduce or “cut back” the number of shares of common stock to be registered in such registration statement. The result of the foregoing is that the liquidity in the com mon stock of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected in the event the SEC requires a cut back of the securities as a condition to allow our portfolio company to rely on Rule 415 with respect to a resale registration statement, or, if the SEC requires our portfolio company to file a primary registration statement. 52 In the event our portfolio companies are unable to register their common stock for resale under the Securities Act, we may be able to resell our common stock investments pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act if we meet the conditions of Rule 144. Rule 144 currently provides that a non-affiliated person (and who has not been an affiliate during the prior three months) may sell all of his restricted securities in a company that has been a reporting company for at least three months beginning six months after purchase, provided the issuer remains current in its reporting obligations during the next six months. However, an affiliated person may sell his restricted securities beginning six months after purchase, provided the following conditions are met: (i) the issuer is current in its reporting obligations, (ii) all sales are in brokerage transactions, (iii) a Form 144 is filed, and (iv) during every three months the number of shares sold does not exceed 1.0% of a company's outstanding common stock. In some cases, we may be deemed an affiliate of our portfolio companies based on our level of stock ownership or our ability to influence control over our portfolio company. As such, in the absence of an effective registration statement for our shares, we may be limited in the number of shares we may be able to sell in any three months period under Rule 144. This illiquidity may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. Also, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Compliance with the criteria for securing exemptions under federal securities laws and the securities laws of the various states is extremely complex, especially in respect of those exemptions affording flexibility and the elimination of trading restrictions in respect of securities received by us in exempt transactions and subsequently disposed of without registration under the Securities Act or state securities laws. Even if we are able to sell our investments without registration, we may be prohibited from selling or transferring our investments, through certain lock-up agreements, for a certain period, typically six months, following an underwritten registered offering by a portfolio company. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Securities Act, if available, or pursuant to a registration statement, may have a depressive effect upon the price of the common stock of our portfolio companies in any market that may develop. Our failure to make additional investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following our investment in a portfolio company, we may have opportunities to make additional subsequent investments in that portfolio company. We may elect not to make such additional subsequent investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any additional subsequent investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make additional subsequent investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our prior investments, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired additional subsequent investment, we may elect not to make that investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of ri sk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements or the desire to maintain our RIC tax status. If our portfolio companies are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, they may lack sufficient capital to continue to grow their businesses, or they may not be able to continue their operations at all. If our portfolio companies lack sufficient capital before they are able to obtain a senior exchange listing, there may be few, if any, options available to them to raise additional capital, jeopardizing the continued viability of, and our investments in, such portfolio companies. Because we likely will not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over such portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of such portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Our equity investments will typically be non-controlling investments, meaning we will not be in a position to control the management, operation and strategic decision-making of the companies we invest in. As a result, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company we do not control, or in which we do not have a majority ownership position, may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we will typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event that we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. 53 We may be subject to certain risks associated with foreign investments. In order to seek to enhance our overall return, we may selectively invest in companies that have operations or are domiciled outside the U.S. Certain risks are inherent in foreign operations, including: ● Difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; ● Foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; ● Tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements, exchange controls or other restrictions; ● General economic and political conditions in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations; ● Exposure to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates; ● Difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; ● Difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights; and ● Required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in foreign exchange rates, exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the U.S., higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. The success of our foreign investments will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or our business as a whole. Investing in primarily micro-cap and small-cap companies may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In accordance with our investment strategy, we intend to make investments in primarily micro-cap and small-cap private companies. Generally, very little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of the senior investment professionals of our investment adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the merits of investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, then we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. Resources could be expended in researching and negotiating investments that may never be consummated, even if non-binding letters of intent or definitive agreements are reached, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to make other investments. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target company and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific investment, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed portfolio investment likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific portfolio investment, up to and including the execution of a definitive agreement, we may fail to consummate the portfolio investment for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred. 54 Risks Related to An Investment in Our Common Stock There is currently no public market for shares of our common stock, and we may be unable to obtain a listing of our shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market within our proposed timeframe. As a result, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares. We are currently conducting a continuous public offering of our shares, which will conclude on June 30, 2011, and no public market currently exists for our shares. While we currently satisfy the requirements to obtain a listing of our shares of common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, and expect to obtain a listing by the end of 2011, we cannot provide you with any assurance that we will be successful in obtaining a listing of our shares on the Nasdaq Capital Market within the timeframe we propose. In addition, our Board of Directors retains the discretion to postpone our listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market if it determines such a listing is not in the best interests of Keating Capital and our stockholders, though we would expect such a postponement to occur only in the event of extraordinary market or economic turmoil.& #160; As a result, if you purchase shares you may have limited liquidity for a substantial period of time, and we cannot provide you with any assurance regarding when or if our shares will be accepted for listing or quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, we can provide you with no assurance that, even if our shares are listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, an active trading market for our shares will develop. Our common stock price, if we become listed or quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, may be volatile and may decrease substantially. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade, if and when it becomes listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Shares of closed-end management investment companies have in the past frequently traded at discounts to their net asset values and our stock may also be discounted in the market. This characteristic of closed-end management investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. In addition, if our common stock trades below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to sell additional shares of our common stock to the public at its market price without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders (including our unaffiliated stockholde rs) and our independent directors for such issuance. If we become listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the 569,800 shares of our common stock sold in our initial private placement at a price of $10.00 per share would be eligible for resale under one or more exemptions from registration under the Securities Act, including Rule 144. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Securities Act, if available, may have a depressive effect upon the price of our common stock in any market that may develop. The trading price of our common stock, if we become listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market in the future will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: ● Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; ● Investor demand for our shares; ● Significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; ● Changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to regulated investment companies or business development companies; ● Failure to qualify as a RIC, or the loss of RIC status; ● Any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; ● Increases or decreases, or expectations about increases or decreases, in our quarterly dividends; ● Changes, or perceived changes, in the value of our portfolio investments; ● Departures of Keating Investments’ key personnel; ● Operating performance of companies comparable to us; or ● General economic conditions and trends and other external factors. 55 In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price once a market for our stock is established, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. There is a risk that our stockholders may not receive consistent distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. Our primary emphasis is to attempt to generate capital gains from the sale of our investments in micro-cap and small-cap companies. While a portion of our investments may, at any given time, include a component of interest or dividends, we do not expect to generate significant current yield on our portfolio company investments. To date, none of our portfolio company investments have generated, nor are they expected to generate, interest or dividend income. Additionally, any investment income we may receive in the form of interest and dividends from our portfolio company investments prior to conversion is not likely to exceed our operating expenses, in which case we do not expect to generate net ordinary income which would be available for distribution to our stockholders. We do not expect th at our interest and dividend income from portfolio company investments would be sufficient to generate net ordinary income. However, if we are able to generate net ordinary income, we intend to distribute such net ordinary income to our stockholders. Because we do not expect to generate net ordinary income, we expect that our primary source of distributions will be from net capital gains realized from the sale of our portfolio company investments. The timing of any capital gains generated from the appreciation and sale of portfolio companies cannot be predicted, and we do not expect to generate capital gains on a level or uniform basis from quarter to quarter. Distributions from realized net capital gains will typically be declared and paid at least annually. However, we may declare and pay periodic distributions which, in the aggregate, would be an estimate of the total net capital gains expected to be realized throughout the year. During the pendency of our continuous public offering, we may also declare and pay periodic distributions in an amoun t reflecting all or a portion of any net unrealized appreciation on investments recorded on our books which, depending on the timing and amount of actual realization, may represent a return of capital. Our distributions may exceed our net ordinary income and realized net capital gains and thus represent a return of capital, particularly during the period before we have substantially invested the net proceeds from our continuous public offering or realized any net capital gains from the disposition of our portfolio company investments. We can give no assurance as to when we will begin to realize any net capital gains from the sale of our assets, if ever. Distributions that represent a return of capital may lower your tax basis in our shares, or may be treated as a gain from the sale of such shares to the extent that such distributions exceed the basis in such shares, and reduce the amount of funds we have for investment in targeted assets. Distributions representing a return of capital will not reduce the number of shares of common stock that you own in us. We will not make any distributions representing a return of capital which would result in a total return of capital in excess of 10% of our total offering proceeds (i.e., the total gross proceeds received from the sale of our common stock). Your interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of your investment. Our charter authorizes us to issue 200,000,000 shares of common stock. Pursuant to our charter, a majority of our Board of Directors may amend our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of stock without stockholder approval. After your purchase in our continuous public offering, our Board of Directors may elect to sell additional shares in future public offerings or issue equity interests in private offerings. To the extent we issue additional equity interests, your percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our investments, you may also experience dilution in the book value and fair value of your shares. 56 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 