ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our emphasis on residential mortgage loans exposes us to a risk of loss due to a decline in property values. At December 31, 2008, $464.7 million, or 78.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of residential mortgage loans and $60.0 million, or 10.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Because of our location on the South Jersey shore, many of the properties securing our residential mortgages are second homes or rental properties. At December 31, 2008, 49.9% of our one- to four-family mortgage loans were secured by these types of properties. These loans generally are considered to be more risky than loans secured by the borrower’s permanent residence, since the borrower is typically dependent upon rental income to meet debt service requirements, in the case of a rental property, and when in financial difficulty is more likely to make payments on the loan secured by the borrower’s primary residence before a vacation home. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful in restoring industry, economic or market conditions and that they will not result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including Ocean Shore Holding, are numerous and include (1) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (2) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in assets values, (3) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (4) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (5) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 0.45% of total loans outstanding and 136.0% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2008. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2008, may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, thus reducing earnings. 16 Table of Contents If we conclude that the decline in value of any of our investment securities is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. We review our investment securities portfolio at each quarter-end reporting period to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other than temporary. If we conclude that the decline is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security through a charge to earnings. As of December 31, 2008, our investment portfolio included six corporate debt securities with a book value of $8.2 million and an estimated fair value of $5.3 million, and two pooled trust preferred securities with a book value of $1.1 million (after an impairment charge of $1.9 million) and an estimated fair value of $1.0 million. Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines may result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, which would require a charge to earnings to write down theses securities to their fair value. At December 31, 2008, we had an investment of $7.1 million in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is unable to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements or is required to aid the remaining Federal Home Loan Banks, our holding in FHLB-NY may be determined to be other than temporarily impaired and may require a charge to our earnings, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any other charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, $60.7 million, or 10.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, commercial construction loans and commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. An economic recession or even a modest slowdown could reduce demand for our products and services and lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the United States economy and the local economy in which we operate. For example, an economic downturn, an increase in unemployment, a decline in real estate values or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. An economic downturn can also hurt the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, causing us to incur higher loan losses. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in Atlantic or Cape May Counties, New Jersey. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy, which is dependent on the gaming and tourism industries, could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt our profits. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down— 17 Table of Contents could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. Future FDIC Assessments Will Hurt Our Earnings In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 20 basis points of assessable deposits as of June 30, 2009. The assessment will be collected on September 30, 2009. The FDIC subsequently announced that it would reduce the special assessment to 10 basis points if Congress increases the FDIC’s borrowing authority with the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The special assessment will negatively impact the Company’s earnings. In addition, the interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose additional emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points per quarter if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company’s earnings. Strong competition within our market area could reduce our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2008, which is the most recent date for which information is available, we held 5.2% of the deposits in Atlantic County, New Jersey, which was the 8th largest share of deposits out of 16 financial institutions with offices in the county, and 8.5% of the deposits in Cape May County, New Jersey, which was the 6th largest share of deposits out of 14 financial institutions with offices in this county. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as our insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Ocean City Home Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 