Risk Factors” for additional information regarding the various risks we face as a result of the regulated nature of our business. China The regulatory rules in China are complex and are not as clear as those in many other jurisdictions. Between 2006 and 2008, a significant portion of our trading volume, trading revenue, net income and cash flow was generated from residents of China. When we commenced offering our forex trading to Chinese customers, we believed that our operations complied with applicable Chinese regulations. However, as a result of a review of our regulatory compliance in China during 2008, we became aware of what appeared to be a China Banking and Regulatory Commission prohibition on providing retail forex trading services through the direct solicitation of Chinese residents, including through the Internet, without a China Banking and Regulatory Commission permit. We do not have such a permit and to our knowledge, no such permit exists. In light of the regulatory uncertainty regarding the permit, we terminated all service offerings to residents of China and ceased our trading support operations located inside the country, while undertaking a review of the manner in which to most appropriately serve Chinese customers. As of December 31, 2008, we no longer accepted new customers from China. Based on our review of the relevant regulatory requirements in China, in 2010 we began accepting Chinese customers that neither we nor our partners directly solicit in China. Canada In Canada, the securities industry is governed by provincial or territorial legislation, and there is no national regulator. Local legislation differs from province to province and territory to territory. In June 2005, we were advised by the British Columbia Securities Commission, or BCSC, that we were required to register as a dealer to offer our trading services directly to residents of that province. Accordingly, since August 2005, we have conducted our business in British Columbia through a while label partner registered as an investment dealer in Canada. On October 30, 2009, the Ontario Securities Commission, or OSC, issued interim guidance which took the position that rolling spot foreign exchange contracts and similar over-the-counter derivative contracts sold using a trading platform similar to ours fall under the definition of securities, which would, absent exemptive relief, require, among other things, us to comply with the dealer registration and prospectus delivery requirements of Ontario securities law. In November 2010, we received correspondence from the OSC requesting information about our customers and business practices in Ontario and asking us to explain why our activities should not be considered in breach of dealer registration and prospectus delivery requirements under Ontario securities law. In its letter, the OSC states that it is acting in conjunction with the BCSC and the Quebec financial industry regulator, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, or AMF, in its review of our activities. The AMF has also separately requested that we cease providing forex services in Quebec. We have responded to the regulators and, since November 22, 2010, have ceased accepting new customers from Quebec, Ontario and Alberta and have directed new customers to our white label partner. We are currently reviewing the forex dealer registration requirements in various Canadian provinces and territories and may seek to register in the future. 21 Table of Contents Singapore We have a small number of retail forex customers that reside in Singapore. We are not currently licensed to offer forex trading services in Singapore, but are currently reviewing the applicable licensing requirements and have consulted with the Monetary Authority of Singapore in order to determine the appropriate course of action. Global Anti-Money Laundering Our anti-money laundering and customer identification programs are designed to comply with applicable rules and regulations on a global basis. In addition, we have developed proprietary methods for risk-management and continue to add specialized processes, queries and automated reports designed to identify potential money laundering, fraud and other suspicious activities. Minimum Net Capital Requirements GAIN Capital Group, LLC, our regulated, wholly-owned subsidiary, and its regulated affiliates, are subject to jurisdiction-based specific minimum net capital requirements, which are designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of the regulated entity. In general, net capital rules require that at least a minimum specified amount of a regulated entity’s assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Net capital is generally defined as net worth (assets minus liabilities), plus qualifying subordinated borrowings and discretionary liabilities, less mandatory deductions that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and from conservatively valuing other assets. As part of our risk-management philosophy, we generally maintain capital levels in excess of those required under applicable minimum net capital regulations. We believe that our excess net capital position in the United States compares favorably to that of many of our competitors which operate primarily in forex trading and puts us in a strong position to address potential future increases in minimum capital requirements domestically and abroad. In addition, we believe that our capital position enhances our access to foreign exchange liquidity, thereby improving our ability to provide customers with attractive pricing and facilitating our trading and hedging activities. Our capital position also allows us to provide capital to our affiliates as needed to accommodate their growth and meet any increases of minimum capital requirements. The following table summarizes the excess net capital levels maintained by our regulated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 (amounts in millions). Entity Name MinimumRegulatory CapitalRequirements Capital LevelsMaintained Excess NetCapital GAIN Capital Group, LLC $ 26.40 $ 76.30 $ 49.88 GAIN Capital Securities, Inc. $ 0.05 $ 0.52 $ 0.47 GAIN Capital-Forex.com U.K., Ltd. $ 2.67 $ 22.83 $ 20.16 Forex.com Japan Co., Ltd. $ 3.97 $ 11.18 $ 7.21 GAIN Capital Forex.com Australia, Pty. Ltd. $ 0.22 $ 0.30 $ 0.09 GAIN Capital-Forex.com Hong Kong, Ltd. $ 0.39 $ 0.98 $ 0.59 GAIN Global Markets, Inc. $ 0.10 $ 0.44 $ 0.35 If a firm fails to maintain the required net capital, its regulator may suspend the firm or revoke its license or registration and ultimately could require the firm’s liquidation. Applicable net capital rules may prohibit the payment of dividends, the redemption of stock, the prepayment of subordinated indebtedness and the making of any unsecured advance or loan to a stockholder, employee or affiliate, if the payment would reduce the firm’s net capital below required levels. 22 Table of Contents The discussion below provides more detailed information regarding the minimum net capital requirements applicable to GAIN Capital Group, LLC. GAIN Capital Group, LLC is subject to the net capital requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act, which are monitored by the CFTC and NFA. Under the net capital rules, the minimum required net capital is $20.0 million plus 5% of the amount of customer liabilities over $10.0 million. GAIN Capital Group, LLC had the following capital as of the dates specified (amounts in thousands): As of December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net capital $ 80,429 $ 102,577 $ 114,978 Adjusted net capital $ 76,293 $ 90,425 $ 107,726 Excess adjusted net capital $ 49,885 $ 64,424 $ 97,726 Supervision and Compliance The role of our compliance department is to ensure that we maintain compliance with all laws, regulations, rules and other legal requirements applicable to us and our regulated subsidiaries and also provide education, supervision, surveillance, mediation and communication review. Many members of our senior management team are NFA-registered principals with supervisory responsibility over forex trading or other aspects of our business. In addition, all sales employees have successfully completed licensing requirements as mandated by their local regulatory regimes. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in October 1999 as GAIN Capital, Inc. In order to expand, either directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, into business activities not regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the National Futures Association, on August 1, 2003, all outstanding capital stock of GAIN Capital, Inc. was converted into capital stock of GAIN Capital Group, Inc. pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger by and among GAIN Capital Group, Inc., GAIN Merger Sub Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of GAIN Capital Group, Inc.) and GAIN Capital, Inc. Pursuant to such agreement and plan of merger, GAIN Merger Sub Inc., merged with and into GAIN Capital, Inc., the surviving entity, and the holders of capital stock, warrants and options of GAIN Capital, Inc. received capital stock, warrants and options of GAIN Capital Group, Inc. on a one-for-one basis, and GAIN Capital, Inc. continued to exist as a wholly-owned subsidiary of GAIN Capital Group, Inc. The GAIN Capital, Inc. stockholders before the merger were the same as the GAIN Capital Group, Inc. stockholders after the merger. As a condition to entering into a credit facility in 2006, the lending banks required that we pledge the ownership interests in certain of our operating subsidiaries as collateral. In order to facilitate this pledge, on March 27, 2006, all outstanding capital stock of GAIN Capital Group, Inc. was converted into capital stock of GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc. pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger by and among GAIN Capital Group, Inc., GH Formation, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of GAIN Capital Group, Inc.) and GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc. Pursuant to such agreement and plan of merger, GH Formation, Inc. merged with and into GAIN Capital Group, Inc., the surviving entity, and the holders of capital stock, warrants and options of GAIN Capital Group, Inc. received capital stock, warrants and options of GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc. on a one-for-one basis, and GAIN Capital Group, Inc. continued to exist as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc. The GAIN Capital Group, Inc. stockholders before the merger were the same as the GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc. stockholders after the merger. For tax planning purposes, contemporaneously with the foregoing merger, on March 27, 2006, GAIN Capital Group, Inc. was converted to a limited liability company, GAIN Capital Group, LLC, and GAIN Capital, Inc. was converted to a limited liability company, GAIN Capital, LLC, thereby allowing profits and losses to pass through such entities. At the same time, GAIN Holdings, LLC, a newly created holding company and wholly- 23 Table of Contents owned subsidiary of GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc., became the sole member and holder of all of the membership interests of GAIN Capital Group, LLC. On April 28, 2006, GAIN Capital, LLC merged with and into GAIN Capital Group, LLC and ceased to exist as a separate entity. The membership interests of GAIN Holdings, LLC were pledged as collateral in connection with the credit facility referenced above. Our principal executive offices are located at Bedminster One, 135 Route 202/206, Bedminster, New Jersey 07921. Our telephone number is (908) 731-0700. On August 18, 2009, we entered into a lease agreement for approximately 45,000 square feet of office space at 135 Route 202/206, Bedminster, New Jersey, which we are using as our new principal executive offices. The term of the lease runs from January 1, 2010 to December 1, 2025, and we moved to our new facilities in January 2010. We believe this new facility will accommodate our needs for the foreseeable future. We operate our OTC trading risk management and most administrative services out of our Bedminster (New Jersey), London and Tokyo offices and our sales and support services out of our Bedminster, New York City, Woodmere (Ohio), London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, and Australia offices. Our corporate website address is www.gaincapital.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report and should not be considered to be a part of this annual report. 24 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, the following companies were our principal operating subsidiaries and intermediate holding companies: Entity Name Business/Services Applicable Regulator GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc. Parent holding company SEC GAIN Capital Group, LLC A registered FCM and RFED, engaging in forex trading services and precious metals spot trading services CFTC and NFA GAIN Capital-Forex.com U.K., Ltd. Forex trading services and CFD trading service U.K. Financial Services Authority Forex.com Japan Co., Ltd. Forex trading services and precious metals spot trading Japan Financial Services Agency GAIN Capital Forex.com Australia Pty. Ltd. Forex trading services and CFD trading services Australian Securities and Investments Commission GAIN Capital-Forex.com Hong Kong, Ltd. Forex trading services and precious metals spot trading services Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission GAIN Capital Securities, Inc. Registered U.S. broker-dealer SEC and FINRA GAIN Global Markets, Inc. Forex trading services and CFD trading services Cayman Islands Monetary Authority (Cayman Islands) GAIN GTX, LLC Electronic Communication Network provider N/A GCAM, LLC Managed account forex trading services N/A GAIN Holdings, LLC Holding company for U.S. operating entities N/A S.L. Bruce Financial Corporation Holding company for U.S. broker-dealer N/A GAIN Capital Holdings International, LLC Holding company for international operating entities N/A GAIN Capital Service Co. Provides administrative services to GAIN Capital Group N/A Employees and Culture As of December 31, 2010, we had 329 full-time employees and 4 part-time employees. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 25 Table of Contents Officers and Significant Employees Our current officers and significant employees, and their ages as of March 30, 2011, are as follows: Name Age Position Executive Officers Glenn H. Stevens 48 Chief Executive Officer and Director Henry C. Lyons 47 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Timothy O’Sullivan 47 Global Head of Trading Samantha Roady 41 Chief Marketing Officer Diego A. Rotsztain 41 General Counsel and Secretary Jeffrey A. Scott 47 Chief Commercial Officer Significant Employees Alexander Bobinski 47 Chief Compliance Officer Andrew Haines 45 Chief Information Officer Kenneth O’Brien 39 Senior Vice President, International Operations Daryl J. Carlough 39 Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller Executive Officers Glenn H. Stevens has served as our president and chief executive officer since June 2007 and a member of our board of directors since June 2007. From February 2000 to May 2007, Mr. Stevens served as one of our managing directors. From June 1997 to January 2000, Mr. Stevens served as managing director, head of North American sales and trading, at National Westminster Bank Plc (which was acquired by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group in 2000). From June 1990 to June 1997, Mr. Stevens served as managing director and chief forex dealer at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. Mr. Stevens is registered with the CFTC and NFA as a principal and associated person. Mr. Stevens received a BS in Finance from Bucknell University and an MBA in Finance from Columbia University. Henry C. Lyons has served as our chief financial officer and treasurer since March 2008. From September 2006 to February 2008, Mr. Lyons served as senior vice president and chief financial officer at ACI Worldwide, a global provider of e-payment processing software and services. Mr. Lyons served from April 2004 to August 2006 as chief financial officer for Discovery Systems, a business unit of GE Healthcare Biosciences, Inc. From January 2001 to March 2004, Mr. Lyons was employed by Amersham Biosciences, Inc. (which was acquired by GE Healthcare in 2004) as corporate controller of the Biosciences division. Mr. Lyons received a BBA in Accounting from Millsaps College and an MBA from New York Institute of Technology. Timothy O’Sullivan has served as global head of trading since March 2000. Mr. O’Sullivan manages the day-to-day operations of our trading desk. From March 1994 to March 2000, Mr. O’Sullivan served as director of the New York Sterling desk at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. Mr. O’Sullivan received a BS in Civil Engineering from the University of Delaware. Samantha Roady has served as our chief marketing officer since August 2006. From September 1999 until August 2006, she was our senior vice president, marketing. From November 1994 to October 1999, Ms. Roady served as director of marketing for FNX Limited, a privately-held provider of trading and risk-management solutions to the international financial community. Ms. Roady is registered with the CFTC and NFA as a principal. Ms. Roady received a BA in International Affairs from James Madison University. Diego A. Rotsztain was appointed executive vice president, general counsel and secretary in January 2011. From January 2010 to January 2011, Mr. Rotsztain was a corporate and securities partner at Mayer Brown LLP. 26 Table of Contents Mr. Rotsztain was an associate in the capital markets group of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP from November 1998 to December 2009. From September 1997 to September 1998, Mr. Rotsztain served as a Law Clerk for the Honorable Judge David G. Trager in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of New York. Mr. Rotsztain received his law degree from Columbia University School of Law in May 1997 and a BA in Economics from Tufts University in May 1992. Jeffrey A. Scott was appointed chief commercial officer in February 2011. From August 2010 through February 2011, Mr. Scott was the president of Toluna USA. From October 2008 to April 2010, Mr. Scott served as a managing director at LexisNexis. From March 2005 through October 2008, Mr. Scott served in various capacities at SourceMedia, Inc., including chief technology officer; president, Accuity, Inc., and most recently, president, banking group. From March 1996 to March 2005, Mr. Scott held various positions at Thomson Financial, including chief technology officer and chief product officer. From August 1994 to March 1996, Mr. Scott served at Thomson Technology Consulting From August 1993 to August 1994, Mr. Scott served as software development manager for Science Applications International Corporation. Mr. Scott began his career at Arinc Research serving as software development manager. Mr. Scott received a BS in Computer Science from the University of Dayton and a MBA from the University of Maryland. Significant Employees Alexander Bobinski has served as our chief compliance officer since February 2010. From September 2008 until February 2010, Mr. Bobinski served as our executive vice president of operations. From August 2005 until September 2008, Mr. Bobinski served as chief financial officer and chief compliance officer of our wholly-owned subsidiary, GAIN Capital Group. From January 2002 to March 2005, Mr. Bobinski served as chief financial officer at Refco, LLC, the global commodity futures trading and clearing entity of Refco, Inc. On October 15, 2007, a petition under the federal bankruptcy laws was filed against Mr. Bobinski by Marc Krischner, as trustee for the Refco Litigation Trust, relating to the October 2005 bankruptcy of Refco, Inc., and was settled in March 2008. From July 1990 to December 2001, Mr. Bobinski served as vice president and controller for the futures and options business at Nomura Securities International, a global clearing firm, commodity pool operator and trading advisor. Mr. Bobinski is registered with the CFTC and NFA as a principal. Mr. Bobinski, a Certified Public Accountant, received a BS in Business Administration/Accounting from Ramapo College of New Jersey. Andrew Haines has served as our chief information officer since September 2007. From September 2004 to July 2005, Mr. Haines was President at Arch Technology Group, LLC, a private technology consulting firm. From July 2005 until September 2007, Mr. Haines served as our vice president, application development. From January 2004 to September 2004, Mr. Haines served as the chief information officer and vice president of technology at Bluefly, Inc., a publicly held online retailer. Mr. Haines received a BS in Finance from the University of Delaware and his MA in Technology Management from the Stevens Institute of Technology. Kenneth O’Brien has served as our senior vice president, international operations since January 2008. From December 2004 to December 2007, Mr. O’Brien served as our vice president, product management & strategic alliances. From July 2004 to December 2004, Mr. O’Brien served as vice president, North American sales of Accurate Software, Inc., a privately held provider of financial electronic commerce services and products that was acquired by CheckFree Software in 2005. From May 2002 to July 2004, Mr. O’Brien served as vice president, North American sales for City Networks, Inc., a privately held provider of back-office operational software. From July 1994 to May 2002, Mr. O’Brien served in various capacities, including managing director, director of sales support and product manager of back office operations, at FNX Limited, a privately-held provider of trading and risk-management solutions to the international financial community. Mr. O’Brien received a BS in Business Administration from La Salle University. Daryl J. Carlough has served as our chief accounting officer and corporate controller since December 2009. He has over thirteen years of experience in accounting and auditing, operations, business systems, risk management, international, human resources and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Carlough served as director of finance from 27 Table of Contents August 2006 to December 2009 at L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. From April 2005 to August 2006, Mr. Carlough served as assistant corporate controller at Viisage Technology, which merged into L-1 Identity Solutions, Inc. in August 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Carlough served at The Macgregor Group as corporate controller, from July 2001 to April 2005, which was acquired by Investment Technology Group. Mr. Carlough started his career at Ernst & Young LLP. He is a Certified Public Accountant, and he received an MBA and MS in Accounting from Northeastern University as well as a BS in Business Administration in Finance from Stonehill College. Internet Website GAIN maintains a corporate website with the address www.gaincapital.com. Its intended use is as a regular means of disclosing material public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD promulgated by the SEC. Such disclosures will be included on the website under the heading “Investor Relations.” Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of the website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We are not incorporating information contained in the website by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will make available, free of charge through the website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, we make available on our website (i) the charters for the committees of our Board of Directors, including the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Risk Committee, and (ii) our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be disclosed pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange. Materials filed with the SEC can be read or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the Public Reference Room. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov containing the reports, proxy statements and other information filed with the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business The Retail Foreign Exchange, or Forex, Market Has Only Recently Become Accessible to Retail Investors and, Accordingly, We Have a Limited Operating History Upon Which to Evaluate Our Performance. The retail forex market has only recently become accessible to retail investors. Prior to 1996, retail investors generally did not directly trade in the forex market and, we believe most current retail forex traders only recently viewed currency trading as an alternative investment class. We commenced doing business in October 1999 and our forex trading operations were launched in June 2000, at which time we began offering forex trading services domestically and internationally. Accordingly, we have only a limited operating history in the international retail forex trading market upon which you can evaluate our prospects and future performance. Our prospects may be materially adversely affected by the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the operation of a new business in a rapidly evolving industry characterized by intense competition and evolving domestic and global regulatory oversight and rules. Our Revenue and Profitability Are Influenced by Trading Volume and Currency Volatility, Which Are Directly Impacted by Domestic and International Market and Economic Conditions That Are Beyond Our Control. During the past few years, there has been significant disruption and volatility in the global financial markets. Many countries, including the United States, have recently experienced recessionary conditions. Our revenue is 28 Table of Contents influenced by the general level of trading activity in the forex market. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due primarily to movements and trends in the world’s currency markets and to fluctuations in trading levels. We have generally experienced greater trading volume in periods of volatile currency markets. In the event we experience lower levels of currency volatility, our revenue and profitability will likely be negatively affected. Like other financial services firms, our business and profitability are directly affected by elements that are beyond our control, such as economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, changes in the volume of foreign currency transactions, changes in supply and demand for currencies, movements in currency exchange rates, changes in the financial strength of market participants, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in the markets in which such transactions occur, changes in how such transactions are processed and disruptions due to terrorism, war or extreme weather events. Any one or more of these factors, or other factors, may adversely affect our business and results of operations and cash flows. A weakness in equity markets, such as the current economic slowdown causing a reduction in trading volume in U.S. or foreign securities and derivatives, could result in reduced trading activity in the forex market and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and our future operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations or declines. Reduced Spreads in Foreign Currencies, Levels of Trading Activity and Trading Through Alternative Trading Systems Could Reduce Our Profitability. Tighter spreads and increased competition could make our business less profitable. In addition, new and enhanced alternative trading systems have emerged as an option for individual and institutional investors to avoid directing their trades through retail forex brokers, which could result in reduced revenue derived for our business. Our Risk-Management Policies and Procedures May Not Be Effective and May Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unexpected Risks. We are dependent on our risk-management policies and the adherence to such policies by our trading staff. Our policies, procedures and practices used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks, including risks related to human error, customer defaults, market movements, fraud and money-laundering, are established and reviewed by the risk committee of our board of directors. Some of our methods for managing risk are discretionary by nature and are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on standard industry practices. These methods may not adequately prevent losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than historical fluctuations in the market. Our risk-management methods also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if our testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing software or hardware failures. In addition, we may elect to adjust our risk-management policies to allow for an increase in risk tolerance, which could expose us to the risk of greater losses. Our risk-management methods rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. These methods may not protect us against all risks or may protect us less than anticipated, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We May Incur Material Trading Losses From Our Forex Trading Activities. A substantial portion of our revenue and operating profits is derived from our foreign exchange trading business. Through our trading activities, we attempt to derive a profit from the difference between the prices at which we buy and sell, or sell and buy, foreign currencies. Since these activities involve the purchase or sale of foreign currencies for our own account, we may incur trading losses for a variety of reasons, including: • price changes in foreign currencies; • lack of liquidity in foreign currencies in which we have positions; and 29 Table of Contents • inaccuracies in our proprietary pricing mechanism, or rate engine, which evaluates, monitors and assimilates market data and reevaluates our outstanding currency quotes, and is designed to publish prices reflective of prevailing market conditions throughout the trading day. These risks may affect the prices at which we are able to sell or buy foreign currencies, or may limit or restrict our ability to either resell foreign currencies that we have purchased or repurchase foreign currencies that we have sold. In addition, competitive forces often require us to match the breadth of quotes our competitors market makers display and to hold varying amounts and types of foreign currencies at any given time. By having to maintain positions in certain currencies, we are subjected to a high degree of risk. We may not be able to manage such risk successfully and may experience significant losses from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We Are Exposed to Losses Due to Lack of Accurate or Timely Information. We provide forex liquidity by buying from sellers and selling to buyers. We may frequently trade with parties who have different or more timely information than we do, and as a result, we may accumulate unfavorable positions preceding price movements in currency pairs. In a forex trade, participants buy one currency and simultaneously sell another currency. We refer to the two currencies that make up a forex trade as a currency pair. The first currency noted in the pair is the base currency and the second is the counter currency. Should the frequency or magnitude of these unfavorable positions increase, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows would be materially adversely affected. We Depend on Our Proprietary Technology. Any Disruption or Corruption of Our Proprietary Technology or Our Inability to Maintain Technological Superiority in Our Industry Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We May Experience Failures While Developing Our Proprietary Technology. We rely on our proprietary technology to receive and properly process internal and external data. Any disruption for any reason in the proper functioning, or any corruption, of our software or erroneous or corrupted data may cause us to make erroneous trades, accept customers from jurisdictions where we do not possess the proper licenses, authorizations or permits, or require us to suspend our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In order to remain competitive, our proprietary technology is under continuous development and redesign. As we develop and redesign our proprietary technology, there is an ongoing risk that failures may occur and result in service interruptions or other negative consequences such as slower quote aggregation, slower trade execution, erroneous trades, or mistaken risk-management information. Our success in the past has largely been attributable to our proprietary technology that has taken many years to develop. We believe our proprietary technology has provided us with a competitive advantage relative to many forex market participants. If our competitors develop more advanced technologies, we may be required to devote substantial resources to the development of more advanced technology to remain competitive. The forex market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing trading systems, practices and techniques. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes in the future, develop new technology, realize a return on amounts invested in developing new technologies or remain competitive in the future. 30 Table of Contents Systems Failures Could Cause Interruptions in Our Services or Decreases in the Responsiveness of Our Services Which Could Harm Our Business. If our systems fail to perform, we could experience disruptions in operations, slower response times or decreased customer satisfaction. Our ability to facilitate transactions successfully and provide high quality customer service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. These systems have in the past experienced periodic interruptions and disruptions in operations, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. Our systems also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. We do not have fully redundant capabilities. While we currently maintain a disaster recovery plan, or DRP, which is intended to minimize service interruptions and secure data integrity, our DRP may not work effectively during an emergency. Any systems failure that causes an interruption in our services or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We May Not Be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Prevented From Using Intellectual Property Necessary for Our Business. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and fair business practice laws in the United States and other jurisdictions to protect our proprietary technology, intellectual property rights and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. We also rigorously control access to proprietary technology. We do not have any patents. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. We also license or are permitted to use intellectual property or technologies owned by others. In the event such intellectual property or technology becomes material to our business, our inability to continue use of such technologies would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology that is material to our business operations. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, we have recently been contacted regarding our alleged infringement of certain patents owned by Broadband Graphics, LLC. We believe these claims are without merit but this matter may result in litigation. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management, any of which could negatively affect our business. A Portion of Our Cost Structure Is Fixed. If Our Revenues Decline and We Are Unable to Reduce Our Costs, Our Profitability Will Be Adversely Affected. A portion of our cost structure is fixed. We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services, as well as our fixed operating infrastructure, such as computer hardware and software, hosting facilities and security and staffing levels. If demand for our products and services declines and, as a result, our revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis and our profitability may be materially adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Attrition of Customer Accounts and Failure to Attract New Accounts Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. Even if We Do Attract New Customers, We May Fail to Attract the Customers in a Cost-Effective Manner, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Profitability and Growth. Our customer base is primarily comprised of individual retail customers who generally trade in the forex market with us for short periods. Although we offer products and tailored services designed to educate, support and retain our customers, our efforts to attract new customers or reduce the attrition rate of our existing customers may not be successful. If we are unable to maintain or increase our customer retention rates or generate a substantial number of new customers in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows would likely be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred sales and marketing expenses of $38.4 million. Although we have spent significant financial resources on sales and marketing expenses and related expenses and plan to continue to do so, these efforts may not be cost-effective at attracting new customers. In particular, we believe that rates for desirable advertising and marketing placements, including online, search engine, print and television advertising, are likely to increase in the foreseeable future, and we may be disadvantaged relative to our larger competitors in our ability to expand or maintain our advertising and marketing commitments. Additionally, our sales and marketing methods are subject to regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and National Futures Association, or NFA in the United States and other regulators in Non-US jurisdictions. The rules and regulations of these organizations impose specific limitations on our sales methods, advertising and marketing. If we do not achieve our advertising objectives, our profitability and growth may be materially adversely affected. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected if Global Economic Conditions Continue to Negatively Impact Our Customer Base. Our customer base is primarily comprised of individual retail customers who view foreign currency trading as an alternative investment class. If global economic conditions continue to negatively impact the forex market or adverse developments in global economic conditions continue to limit the disposable income of our customers, our business could be materially adversely affected as our customers may choose to curtail their trading in the forex market which could result in reduced customer trading volume and trading revenue. We Are Subject to Litigation Risk Which Could Adversely Affect Our Reputation, Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. Many aspects of our business involve risks that expose us to potential liability under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the rules and enforcement efforts of our regulators and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. These risks include, among others, disputes over trade terms with customers and other market participants, customer losses resulting from system delay or failure and customer claims that we or our employees executed unauthorized transactions, made materially false or misleading statements or lost or diverted customer assets in our custody. We may also be subject to regulatory investigation and enforcement actions seeking to impose significant fines or other sanctions, which in turn could trigger civil litigation for our previous operations that may be deemed to have violated applicable rules and regulations in various jurisdictions. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and fines claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services firms has been increasing and may continue to increase. The amounts involved in the trades we execute, together with rapid price movements in our currency pairs, can result in potentially large damage claims in any litigation resulting from such trades. Dissatisfied customers, regulators or self-regulatory organizations may make claims against us regarding the quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud, and these claims may increase as our business expands. 32 Table of Contents Litigation may also arise from disputes over the exercise of our rights with respect to customer accounts and collateral. Although our customer agreements generally provide that we may exercise such rights with respect to customer accounts and collateral as we deem reasonably necessary for our protection, our exercise of these rights may lead to claims by customers that we did so improperly. In addition, litigation may arise relating to other parties’ unauthorized use of our intellectual property or from claims by other parties that we have used their intellectual property without authorization. Even if we prevail in any litigation or enforcement proceedings against us, we could incur significant legal expenses defending against the claims, even those without merit. Moreover, because even claims without merit can damage our reputation or raise concerns among our customers, we may feel compelled to settle claims at significant cost. The initiation of any claim, proceeding or investigation against us, or an adverse resolution of any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We May Be Subject to Customer Litigation, Financial Losses, Regulatory Sanctions and Harm to Our Reputation as a Result of Employee Misconduct or Errors That Are Difficult to Detect and Deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Our employees could execute unauthorized transactions for our customers, use customer assets improperly or without authorization, carry out improper activities on behalf of customers or use confidential customer or company information for personal or other improper purposes, as well as improperly record or otherwise try to hide improper activities from us. In addition, employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for customers, may cause us to enter into transactions that customers disavow and refuse to settle. Employee errors expose us to the risk of material losses until the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. Further, such errors may be more likely to occur in the aftermath of any acquisitions during the integration of or migration from technological systems. Misconduct by our employees or former employees could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It may not be possible to deter or detect employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our employees may also commit good faith errors that could subject us to financial claims for negligence or otherwise, as well as regulatory actions. Misconduct by employees of our customers can also expose us to claims for financial losses or regulatory proceedings when it is alleged we or our employees knew or should have known that an employee of our customer was not authorized to undertake certain transactions. Dissatisfied customers can make claims against us, including claims for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions by associated persons or failures in the processing of transactions. Any Restriction in the Availability of Credit Cards as a Payment Option for Our Customers Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We currently allow our customers to use credit cards to fund their accounts with us. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 37.5% of the notional value of our customers deposits were funded in this manner. There is a risk that in the future, new regulations or credit card issuing institutions may restrict the use of credit and debit cards as a means to fund accounts used to trade in investment products. The elimination or a reduction in the availability of credit cards as a means to fund customer accounts or any increase in the fees associated with such use, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents Our Customer Accounts May Be Vulnerable to Identity Theft and Credit Card Fraud. Credit card issuers have adopted credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing efforts to prevent identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to ensure that our services, including customer account maintenance, comply with these rules. When there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, there is the potential that we could experience reputational damage and parties could seek damages from us. Failure to Maintain the Anonymity of Our Institutional Customers on Our GAIN GTX Electronic Communications Network, or ECN, Could Harm Our Reputation and Result in a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We operate our GAIN GTX ECN as a fully anonymous trading environment that offers our institutional customers direct market access and trade execution capabilities. If outside individuals determine the identity of our institutional customers, we may be subject to customer claims against us for negligence, fraud, failure to supervise, employee error and intentional misconduct, among others. Any such claims may harm our reputation and result in material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. A Financial Services Firm’s Reputation Is Critically Important. If Our Reputation Is Harmed, or the Reputation of the Online Financial Services Industry as a Whole Is Harmed, Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows may be Materially Adversely Affected. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal with issues that may give rise to reputation risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, client data protection, record keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our business. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to additional legal risk to us, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Any such sanction would materially adversely affect our reputation, thereby reducing our ability to attract and retain customers and employees. In addition, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected if the reputation of the online financial services industry as a whole or forex industry is damaged. In recent years, a number of financial services firms have suffered significant damage to their reputations from highly publicized incidents that in turn resulted in significant and in some cases irreparable harm to their business. The perception of instability within the online financial services industry could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. The Loss of Our Key Employees Would Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Including Our Ability to Grow Our Business. Our key employees, including Glenn Stevens, our chief executive officer, and Tim O’Sullivan, our global head of trading, have significant experience in the forex industry and have made significant contributions to our business. Henry Lyons, our chief financial officer, has significant experience with publicly traded companies and has made significant contributions to our company. In addition, Alexander Bobinski, our chief compliance officer, Samantha Roady, our chief marketing officer, and Andrew Haines, our chief information officer, have made significant contributions to our business. Our continued success is dependent upon the retention of these and other key executive officers and employees, as well as the services provided by our trading staff, technology and programming specialists and a number of other key managerial, marketing, planning, financial, technical and operations personnel. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our ability to grow our business is dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to retain such employees. 34 Table of Contents Any Future Acquisitions May Result in Significant Transaction Expenses, Integration and Consolidation Risks and Risks Associated With Entering New Markets, and We May Be Unable to Profitably Operate Our Consolidated Company. Although our growth strategy has not focused historically on acquisitions, we may in the future selectively pursue acquisitions and new businesses. Any future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses and present new risks associated with entering additional markets or offering new products and integrating the acquired companies. Because acquisitions historically have not been a core part of our growth strategy, we do not have significant experience in successfully completing acquisitions. We may not have sufficient management, financial and other resources to integrate companies we acquire or to successfully operate new businesses and we may be unable to profitably operate our expanded company. Additionally, any new businesses that we may acquire, once integrated with our existing operations, may not produce expected or intended results. The Expansion of Our Trading Activities Into Other Financial Products, Including Listed Securities, Contracts for Difference, or CFDs, Over-the-Counter, or OTC, Currency Derivatives and Gold and Silver Spot Trading Entails Significant Risk, and Unforeseen Events in Such Business Could Have An Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. All of the risks that pertain to our trading activities in the forex market also apply to our listed securities, CFDs, OTC currency derivatives and gold and silver spot trading and any other products we may offer in the future. These risks include market risk, counterparty risk, liquidity risk, technology risk, third-party risk and risk of human error. In addition, we have limited experience outside of the forex market and even though we expect to ease into these activities very slowly through internal growth or acquisition, any kind of unexpected event can occur that can result in great financial loss to us, including our inability to effectively integrate new products into our existing trading platform or our failure to properly manage the market risks associated with making-markets for new products. With respect to CFDs, the volatility characteristics of the CFD market may have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain profit margins similar to the profit margins we have realized with respect to forex trading. In addition, by further expanding our listed securities offerings, we are expanding from what is primarily a business model focused on OTC trading into a business model that includes brokerage activities that require reliance upon third-party clearing firms to hold our customers’ funds and execute our customers’ trades. The introduction of these and other potential financial products also poses a risk that our risk-management policies, procedures and practices, and the technology that supports such activities, will be unable to effectively manage these new risks to our business. In addition we would be subject to local securities laws for all of these offerings. Our non-U.S. operating subsidiaries, including, GAIN Capital-Forex.com U.K., Ltd., which is licensed with the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, and GAIN Capital Forex.com Australia Pty. Ltd., which is licensed with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, offer and sell CFDs outside the United States to non-U.S. persons. CFDs are not and may not be offered in the United States by us, including by any of our U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, and are not eligible for resale to U.S. persons. They are not currently registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or any other U.S. regulator. CFDs may not be enforceable in the United States. To the extent our current CFD product offerings constitute an offer or sale of securities under the U.S. federal securities laws; we will need to comply with those U.S. federal securities laws. To the extent our CFD offerings constitute OTC futures contracts or other financial derivative instruments; they are prohibited under the provisions of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act. To the extent our CFD offerings are determined to constitute swaps or security-based swaps under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Commodity Exchange Act, or the federal securities laws, we would be required to comply with such U.S. laws with respect to such offerings. Failure to effectively manage these risks or properly comply with local laws or regulations relating to our product offerings, including U.S. federal securities laws, may expose us to fines, penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents We May Be Unable to Effectively Manage Our Rapid Growth and Retain Our Customers. The rapid growth of our business during our short history has placed significant demands on our management and other resources. If our business continues to grow at a rate consistent with our historical growth, we may need to expand and upgrade the reliability and scalability of our transaction processing systems, network infrastructure and other aspects of our proprietary technology. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our technology systems and infrastructure to accommodate increases in our business activity in a timely manner, which could lead to operational breakdowns and delays, loss of customers, a reduction in the growth of our customer base, increased operating expenses, financial losses, increased litigation or customer claims, regulatory sanctions or increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, due to our rapid growth, we will need to continue to attract, hire and retain highly skilled and motivated officers and employees. We may not be able to attract or retain the officers and employees necessary to manage this growth effectively. We May Be Unable to Respond to Customers’ Demands for New Services and Products and Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows May Be Materially Adversely Affected. The market for Internet-based trading is characterized by: • changing customer demands; • the need to enhance existing services and products or introduce new services and products; • evolving industry practices; and • rapidly evolving technology solutions. New services and products provided by our competitors may render our existing services and products less competitive. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to customers’ demands for new services and products on a timely and cost-effective basis and to adapt to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers. We may not be successful in developing, introducing or marketing new services and products. In addition, our new service and product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to customer requirements or changing industry practices, or any significant delays in the development, introduction or availability of new services, products or service or product enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We Face Significant Competition. Many of Our Competitors and Potential Competitors Have Larger Customer Bases, More Established Name Recognition and Greater Financial, Marketing, Technological and Personnel Resources Than We Do Which Could Put Us at a Competitive Disadvantage. Additionally, Some of Our Competitors and Many Potential Competitors Are Better Capitalized Than We Are, and Are Able to Obtain Capital More Easily Which Could Put Us at a Competitive Disadvantage. We compete in the OTC markets based in part on our ability to execute our customers’ trades at competitive prices, to retain our existing customers and to attract new customers. Our competitors range from numerous sole proprietors with limited resources to a few sophisticated institutions which have larger customer bases, more established name recognition and substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. These advantages may enable them, among other things, to: • develop products and services that are similar to ours, or that are more attractive to customers than ours, in one or more of our markets; • provide products and services we do not offer; • provide execution and clearing services that are more rapid, reliable or efficient, or less expensive than ours; 36 Table of Contents • offer products and services at prices below ours to gain market share and to promote other businesses, such as forex options listed securities, CFDs, spot-precious metals and OTC derivatives; • adapt at a faster rate to market conditions, new technologies and customer demands; • offer better, faster and more reliable technology; • outbid us for desirable acquisition targets; • more efficiently engage in and expand existing relationships with strategic alliances; • market, promote and sell their products and services more effectively; and • develop stronger relationships with customers. These larger and better capitalized competitors, including commercial and investment banking firms, may have access to capital in greater amounts and at lower costs than we do, and thus, may be better able to respond to changes in the forex industry, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. Access to capital is critical to our business to satisfy regulatory obligations and liquidity requirements. Among other things, access to capital determines our creditworthiness, which if perceived negatively in the market could materially impair our ability to provide clearing services and attract customer assets, both of which are important sources of revenue. Access to capital also determines the degree to which we can expand our operations. Thus, if we are unable to maintain or increase our capital on competitive terms, we could be at a significant competitive disadvantage, and our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and earnings could be materially impaired. Also, new or existing competitors in our markets could make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share or increase it in desirable markets. In addition, our competitors could offer their services at lower prices, and we may be required to reduce our fees significantly to remain competitive. A fee reduction without a commensurate reduction in expenses would decrease our profitability. We may not be able to compete effectively against these firms, particularly those with greater financial resources, and our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We may in the future face increased competition, resulting in narrowing bid/offer spreads which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our International Operations Present Special Challenges and Our Failure to Adequately Address Such Challenges or Compete in These Markets, Either Directly or Through Joint Ventures With Local Firms, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. In 2010, we generated approximately 50.3% of our trading volume from customers outside the United States. Expanding our business in other emerging markets is an important part of our growth strategy. Due to certain cultural, regulatory and other challenges relevant to those markets, however, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in those regions relative to local firms or to international firms that have a well-established local presence. These challenges include: • less developed or mature local technological infrastructure and higher costs, which could make our products and services less attractive or accessible in emerging markets; • difficulty in complying with the diverse regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may be more burdensome, not clearly defined, and subject to unexpected changes, potentially exposing us to significant compliance costs and regulatory penalties; • less developed and established local financial and banking infrastructure, which could make our products and services less accessible in emerging markets; 37 Table of Contents • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; • inability to enforce contracts in some jurisdictions; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including reliance on newly hired local personnel; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • currency and tax laws that may prevent or restrict the transfer of capital and profits among our various operations around the world; and • time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world. In addition, in order to be competitive in these local markets, or in some cases because of restrictions on the ability of foreign firms to do business locally, we may seek to operate through joint ventures with local firms as we have done, for example, in Japan. Doing business through joint ventures may limit our ability to control the conduct of the business and could expose us to reputational and greater operational risks. We may also face intense competition from other international firms over relatively scarce opportunities for market entry. Given the intense competition from other international brokers that are also seeking to enter these fast-growing markets, we may have difficulty finding suitable local firms willing to enter into the kinds of relationships with us that we may need to gain access to these markets. This competition could make it difficult for us to expand our business internationally as planned. GAIN Capital Holdings, Inc. Is a Holding Company and Accordingly Depends on Cash Flow From Its Operating Subsidiaries to Meet Our Obligations. If Our Operating Subsidiaries Are Unable to Pay Us Dividends When Needed, We May Be Unable to Satisfy Our Obligations When They Arise. As a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our operating subsidiaries, nearly all of our funds generated from operations are generated by our operating subsidiaries. Historically, we have accessed these funds through receipt of dividends from these subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to requirements of various regulatory bodies, including the CFTC and NFA in the United States, the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Agency, the Japan Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Japan Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in Japan, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong and the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority in the Cayman Islands, relating to liquidity and capital standards, which limit funds available for the payment of dividends to the holding company. Accordingly, if our operating subsidiaries are unable, due to regulatory restrictions or otherwise, to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations when they arise. Risks Related to Regulation We Operate in a Heavily Regulated Environment That Imposes Significant Requirements and Costs on Us. Failure to Comply With the Rapidly Evolving Laws and Regulations Governing Our Forex and Other Businesses May Result in Regulatory Agencies Taking Action Against Us, Which Could Significantly Harm Our Business. Substantially all of our operations involving the execution and clearing of transactions in foreign currencies, CFDs, gold and silver and securities are conducted through subsidiaries that are regulated by governmental bodies or self-regulatory organizations, including in the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Hong Kong and the Cayman Islands. Many of the regulations we are governed by are intended to protect the public, our customers and the integrity of the markets, and not necessarily our shareholders. In the United States, our forex trading activities are regulated by the CFTC and the NFA, and our securities activities are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA. Outside the United States, our principal regulators include the Financial Services Authority in the United 38 Table of Contents Kingdom, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia, and the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, while in Japan, we are regulated by the Financial Services Agency of Japan, the Japan Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, or the JETI, and the Japan Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, or the JAFF. Among other things, we are subject to regulation with regard to: • sales and marketing activities, including our interaction with, and solicitation of, customers; • trading practices, including the manner in which we offer investment products and the types of investment products we may offer; • treatment of customer assets, including custody, control, safekeeping and, in certain countries, segregation of our customer funds and securities; • maintaining specified minimum amounts of capital and limiting withdrawals of funds from our regulated operating subsidiaries; • continuing education requirements for our employees; • anti-money laundering practices; • recordkeeping and reporting; and • supervision regarding the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Compliance with these regulations is complicated, time consuming and expensive. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and regulations is dependent in large part on our internal legal and compliance functions, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which we may not be able to do. Regulators and self-regulatory organizations broadly oversee the conduct of our business and several perform regular examinations of our operations to monitor our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If a regulator finds that we have failed to comply with applicable rules and regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel, civil litigation or other sanctions, including, in some cases, increased reporting requirements or other undertakings, revocation of our operating licenses or criminal conviction. In addition, we could incur significant legal expenses in defending ourselves against and resolving actions or investigations by such regulatory agencies. An adverse resolution of any future actions or investigations by such regulatory agencies against us could result in a negative perception of our company and cause the market price of our common stock to decline or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a Result of Recent Regulatory Changes in Certain Jurisdictions, Our Operations and Profitability May Be Disrupted and We May Be Subject to Regulatory Action Taken Against Us if a Regulatory Authority Determines that Our Operations Are Out of Compliance, or Requires Us to Comply With Additional Regulatory Requirements. Recently, the legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes and there are likely to be future regulatory changes affecting our industry. Our ability to expand our presence in various jurisdictions throughout the world will depend on the nature of future changes to the regulatory environment and our ability to continue to comply with evolving requirements. To the extent one or more regulators determines that our current activities do not comply with applicable law or regulations in a given jurisdiction, our services may be disrupted, we may elect to shift our services to a white label partner or we may be required to withdraw or modify our service offering. In August 2010, the CFTC released new rules, effective as of October 18, 2010, relating to the retail forex industry regarding, among other things, increased initial minimum security deposits, registration of introducing brokers, money managers and fund managers, increased risk disclosures, including disclosures relating to 39 Table of Contents customer profits and losses, record keeping, financial reporting, minimum capital and other operational standards. In addition, the rules established 50-to-1 as the maximum leverage permitted to be provided to U.S. customers in major currency pairs, and 20-to-1 in all other currency pairs. Our inability to offer U.S. customers leverage in excess of these limits, compared to 100-to-1 previously for all currency pairs, may diminish the trading volume generated by these customers, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We can provide no assurance that maximum leverage limits in the United States, or elsewhere, will not be decreased further, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the new disclosure requirements may impact our ability to attract and retain our retail customers. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, is also expected to have a significant effect on our U.S. retail forex business. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act further amended the Commodity Exchange Act to prohibit essentially all OTC retail transactions in any commodity other than foreign currency after July 15, 2011. As a result, after such date, we will not be permitted to offer our U.S. retail customers spot metals trading or any product other than forex. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our spot metals trading business in the United States generated approximately $10.8 million in revenue. As such, the loss of our ability to offer this product to our U.S. retail customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue and profitability. In addition, beginning in October 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act requires us to ensure that our customers resident in the United States have accounts with our NFA-registered operating entity and not our international entities. As a result, some of our customers may decide to transact their trading with a foreign forex broker that is not subject to regulation under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes a requirement that federal banking regulators and the SEC adopt new rules regarding the conduct and operation of forex businesses by banks and broker-dealers, respectively. As a result of these new regulations, the ability of our wholesale forex trading partners, many of which are regulated banks and/or broker-dealers, to do business with us could be significantly curtailed, which could materially adversely affect our ability to provide liquidity to our customers. In addition, the new rules could adversely affect the structure, size, depth and liquidity of forex markets generally. Any of these new regulatory developments, alone or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. In the European Union, government officials have announced the intention to propose new laws to regulate OTC derivatives. The new laws would, among other things, require mandatory central clearing of some derivatives, higher collateral requirements and higher capital charges for certain OTC derivatives. These initiatives are still at the consultation stage and details for many aspects of the legislative proposals have not yet been published. If the products that we offer are subjected to mandatory central clearing, exchange trading, higher collateral requirements or higher capital charges, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In Japan, new regulations, which became effective in August 2010, prohibit our ability to offer Japanese residents leverage for forex products in excess of 50-to-1 and in August 2011 the maximum allowable leverage for forex products in Japan will decrease to 25-to-1. For spot gold that we offer in Japan, beginning July 1, 2011, the maximum allowable leverage will be 20-to-1. These changes may result in a decrease in Japanese customer trading volume, which may in turn materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission has proposed its intention to issue new guidance on advertising materials, to introduce disclosure benchmarks for OTC CFD providers and to require OTC CFD providers to adopt written customer suitability policies. In addition, the changing regulatory environment may create uncertainty with respect to certain practices or types of transactions that, in the past, may have been considered permissible and appropriate among financial services firms. Certain established practices may be called into question or become subject to additional regulatory requirements. These legal or regulatory uncertainties and additional regulatory requirements could result in a loss 40 Table of Contents of, or increase in the cost of, business and could materially adversely affect our revenue, profitability and results of operations. In addition, because of changes in regulation, regulatory interpretations, enforcement practices or for other reasons, we may be found to have violated local regulation and, as a result, we may be subject to enforcement actions and penalties or customer claims. As We Operate in Many Jurisdictions Without Local Registration, Licensing or Authorization, We May Be Subject to Possible Enforcement Action and Sanction for Our Operations in Such Jurisdictions if Our Operations Are Determined to Have Violated Regulations in Those Jurisdictions. Our Growth May Be Limited by Various Restrictions and We Remain at Risk That We May Be Required to Cease Operations if We Become Subject to Regulation by Local Government Bodies. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 68.3% of our trading volume was attributable to customers resident in a jurisdiction where we are licensed, regulated or where we deal with customers cross-border in a manner which we believe does not require us to be regulated in that jurisdiction. The remaining 31.7% of our trading volume was attributable to customers in jurisdictions in which we are not currently licensed or authorized by the local government or applicable self-regulatory organization or where we depend on our partners being licensed or regulated. We determine the nature and extent of services we can offer and the manner in which we conduct our business in the various jurisdictions in which we serve customers based on a variety of factors, including legal advice received from local counsel, our review of applicable laws and regulations and, in some cases, our discussions with local regulators. In cases in which we operate in jurisdictions based on local legal advice, we are exposed to the risk that our legal and regulatory analysis is subsequently determined by a local regulatory agency or other authority to be incorrect and that we have not been in compliance with local laws or regulations, including local licensing or authorization requirements, and to the risk that the regulatory environment in a jurisdiction may change, including in a circumstance where laws or regulations or licensing or authorization requirements that previously were not enforced become subject to enforcement In jurisdictions in which we are not licensed or authorized, we may be subject to a variety of restrictions regarding the manner in which we conduct our business or serve customers, including restrictions on: • our sales and marketing activities; • the use of a website specifically targeted to potential customers in a particular country; • the minimum income level or financial sophistication of potential customers we may contact; • our ability to have a physical presence in a particular country; or • the types of services we may offer customers physically present in each country. These restrictions may limit our ability to grow our business in any such jurisdiction or may result in increased overhead costs or degradation in our services in that jurisdiction. We currently have only a limited presence in a number of important markets and because of these and other regulatory restrictions, we may not be able to gain a significant presence there unless and until the regulatory landscape in these markets is modified. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our international expansion plans will be achieved. We may be subject to possible enforcement action and penalties if we are determined to have previously offered, or currently offer, our services in violation of applicable laws and regulations in any of the markets in which we serve customers. For example, the regulatory rules in China are complex and are not as clear as those in many other jurisdictions and our forex trading services may not have been, and may not currently be, compliant with applicable Chinese regulations. Between 2006 and 2008, a significant portion of our trading volume, trading revenue, net income and cash flow were generated from residents of China. When we commenced offering our forex trading services to residents of China in October 2003, we believed that our operations were in compliance with applicable Chinese regulations. However, as a result of a review of our regulatory compliance in China during 2008, we became aware of what appeared to be a China Banking and Regulatory Commission prohibition on providing retail forex trading services through the direct solicitation of Chinese residents, including through the Internet, without a China Banking and Regulatory Commission permit. We do not have such a permit and to our knowledge, no such permit exists. In light of the regulatory uncertainty regarding the permit, we terminated 41 Table of Contents all service offerings to residents of China and ceased our trading support operations located inside the country, while undertaking a review of the manner in which to most appropriately serve Chinese customers. As of December 31, 2008, we no longer accepted new customers from China. However, due to an ongoing relationship with one of our introducing brokers, eight legacy accounts in China, which were originally sourced through that introducing broker prior to the termination of our service offering, remained open. The trading activity by these legacy accounts resulted in an immaterial amount of trading volume to us and were all closed as of December 31, 2009. Based on our review of the relevant regulatory requirements in China, in 2010 we began accepting Chinese customers that neither we nor our partners directly solicit in China. We may be subject to fines, penalties or sanctions as a result of our current and historical forex trading services to Chinese residents. A small number of our customers also reside in Singapore. We are not currently licensed to offer forex trading services in Singapore, but are currently reviewing the applicable licensing requirements and have consulted with the Monetary Authority of Singapore in order to determine the appropriate course of action. If we are required by the Monetary Authority of Singapore to cease accepting customers prior to receiving a license, we will direct all existing customers to a white label partner. We could also be subject to fines, penalties or other sanctions as a result of our historical activities with customers residing in Singapore. In any such case, we may be required to cease the conduct of our business with customers in one or more jurisdictions. We may also determine that compliance with the laws or licensing, authorization or other regulatory requirements for continuing the business in one or more jurisdictions are too onerous to justify making the necessary changes. In addition, any such event could impact our relationship with the regulators or self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions where we are subject to regulation. The Canadian regulatory environment is complex and evolving, and our forex trading services may not be compliant with the regulations of each province and territory in Canada. If we have contravened Canadian regulatory requirements, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties and customer claims. Canadian securities regulatory authorities have broad remedial authority, including the authority to order disgorgement of profits and suspension of trading activities in appropriate circumstances. We may also be required to register our business in one or more provinces or territories, or to offer our trading services through locally registered white label partners. Any such enforcement actions, penalties, claims or new locally registered white label partnerships could have a significant adverse impact on our profitability in relation to the services we offer in Canada. Approximately 6.0% of our customer trading volume for the year ended December 31, 2010 was generated from customers located in Canada. In Canada, the securities industry is governed by provincial or territorial legislation, and there is no national regulator. Local legislation differs from province to province and territory to territory. The Canadian regulatory environment is complex and evolving, and our forex trading services may not have been, and may not currently be, compliant with the regulations of each province and territory. In June 2005, we were advised by the British Columbia Securities Commission, or BCSC, that we were required to register as a dealer to offer our trading services directly to residents of that province. We have therefore conducted our business in British Columbia through Questrade, Inc, a registered investment dealer in Canada, since August 2005. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the Ontario Securities Commission, or OSC, issued interim guidance pursuant to a staff notice which took the position that rolling spot foreign exchange contracts and similar over-the-counter derivative contracts sold using a trading platform similar to ours fall under the definition of securities, which would, absent exemptive relief, require, among other things, us to comply with the dealer registration and prospectus delivery requirements of Ontario securities law. In November 2010, we received correspondence from the OSC requesting information about our customers and business practices in Ontario and asking us to explain why our activities should not be considered in breach of dealer registration and prospectus delivery requirements under Ontario securities law. In its letter, the OSC states that it is acting in conjunction 42 Table of Contents with the BCSC and the Quebec financial industry regulator, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, or AMF, in its review of our activities. The OSC staff also provided a copy of a Statement of Allegations that was issued by the OSC staff in November 2010 to a third party introducing broker and authorized trader previously associated with us, which was not registered as a dealer in Ontario and solicited clients over the Internet to invest in the currency market through our accounts in contravention of dealer registration and prospectus delivery requirements under Ontario securities law. We have also received notices from the AMF asserting violations of derivatives regulations in that province and directing us, in light of the alleged contraventions of regulatory requirements, to cease providing services in Quebec. We responded to the regulators and have ceased accepting new customers from Quebec, Ontario and Alberta. Since November 22, 2010, we have directed all new customers resident in Quebec, Ontario and Alberta to our white label partner, Questrade, Inc. If required by the regulators, we will also transfer all existing customers resident in Quebec, Ontario and Alberta to Questrade, Inc. Since we share a portion of the revenue generated from these customers with our white label partner, our profitability relating to our services in these provinces has been adversely affected. Our profitability relating to our Canadian business may be further adversely affected if we are required to enter into white label partnerships in the other provinces of Canada. In addition to the impact on our profitability of our white label partnerships, if our forex trading operations are considered to contravene Canadian regulatory requirements in Quebec, Ontario and Alberta or any other province or territory, we may also be subject to enforcement actions and penalties including disgorgement of profits and suspension of trading activities, as well as customer claims. If we deem it advisable and it is practicable to do so, we may seek to register as a dealer in various Canadian provinces and territories to offer our trading services directly. We Are Required to Maintain High Levels of Capital, Which Could Constrain Our Growth and Subject Us to Regulatory Sanctions. Our regulators have stringent rules requiring that we maintain specific minimum levels of regulatory capital in our operating subsidiaries that conduct our spot foreign exchange, CFDs, gold and silver spot trading and securities business. In the United States, as a Futures Commission Merchant, or FCM, and a Retail Forex Exchange Dealer, or RFED, we are required to maintain adjusted net capital of $20.0 million plus 5.0% of the amount of customer liabilities over $10.0 million. On a worldwide basis, as of December 31, 2010, we were required to maintain approximately $33.8 million minimum capital in the aggregate across all jurisdictions, representing a $7.8 million increase from our minimum regulatory capital requirement at December 31, 2009. Regulators continue to evaluate and modify regulatory capital requirements from time to time in response to market events and to improve the stability of the international financial system. Additional revisions to this framework or new capital adequacy rules applicable to us may be proposed and ultimately adopted, which could further increase our minimum capital requirements in the future. Even if regulators do not change existing regulations or adopt new ones, our minimum capital requirements will generally increase in proportion to the size of the business conducted by our regulated subsidiaries. As a result, we will need to increase our regulatory capital in order to expand our operations and increase our revenue, and our inability to increase our capital on a cost-efficient basis could constrain our growth. In addition, in many cases, we are not permitted to withdraw regulatory capital maintained by our subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval or notice, which could constrain our ability to allocate our capital resources most efficiently throughout our global operations. In particular, these restrictions could adversely affect our ability to withdraw funds needed to satisfy our ongoing operating expenses, debt service and other cash needs and could limit any future decision by our board to declare dividends. Regulators monitor our levels of capital closely. We are required to report the amount of regulatory capital we maintain to our regulators on a regular basis, and we must report any deficiencies or material declines promptly. While we expect that our current amount of regulatory capital will be sufficient to meet anticipated short-term increases in requirements, any failure to maintain the required levels of regulatory capital, or to report any capital deficiencies or material declines in capital could result in severe sanctions, including fines, censure, restrictions on our ability to conduct business and revocation of our registrations. The imposition of one or more of these sanctions could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or the liquidation of one or more of our subsidiaries. 43 Table of Contents Servicing Customers Via the Internet May Require Us to Comply With the Laws and Regulations of Each Country in Which We Are Deemed to Conduct Business. Failure to Comply With Such Laws May Negatively Impact Our Financial Results. Since our services are available over the Internet in foreign countries and we have customers residing in foreign countries, foreign jurisdictions may require us to qualify to do business in their country. We believe that the number of our customers residing outside of the United States will increase over time. We are required to comply with the laws and regulations of each country in which we conduct business, including laws and regulations currently in place or which may be enacted related to Internet services available to the residents of each country from service providers located elsewhere. Any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Procedures and Requirements of the Patriot Act and other Anti-money Laundering and Know Your Customer Regulations May Expose Us to Significant Costs or Penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, we are, and our subsidiaries are, subject to numerous laws and regulations, including the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the Patriot Act, that require that we know our customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and similar laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with these laws and regulations are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as an online financial services provider with customers worldwide, we may face particular difficulties in identifying our customers and monitoring their activities. Risks Related to Third Parties We Are Dependent on Wholesale Forex Trading Partners to Continually Provide Us With Forex Market Liquidity. In the Event That We No Longer Have Access to the Prices and Levels of Liquidity That We Currently Have, We May Be Unable to Provide Competitive Forex Trading Services, Which Will Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. Given the level of our customers’ trading volume, we rely on third-party financial institutions to provide us with forex market liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, we maintained relationships with three established global prime brokers, including Deutsche Bank AG, or Deutsche Bank, UBS AG, or UBS, and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc, or RBS, as well as relationships with a number of additional wholesale forex trading partners and had access to other trading platforms. We depend on these relationships for our access to a pool of forex liquidity to ensure that we are able to execute our customers’ trades in any of the 48 currency pairs, six metals or 12 CFD product offerings we offer and in notional amount they request. These prime brokers and wholesale forex trading partners, although under contract with us, have no obligation to provide us with liquidity and may terminate our arrangements at any time. In the event that we no longer have access to the competitive wholesale forex pricing spreads and/or levels of liquidity that we currently have, we may be unable to provide competitive forex trading services, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 44 Table of Contents We Depend on the Services of Prime Brokers to Assist in Providing Us Access to Liquidity Through Our Wholesale Forex Trading Partners. The Loss of One or More of Our Prime Brokerage Relationships Could Lead to Increased Transaction Costs and Capital Posting Requirements, As Well As Having a Negative Impact on Our Ability to Verify Our Open Positions, Collateral Balances and Trade Confirmations. We depend on the services of prime brokers to assist in providing us access to liquidity through our wholesale forex trading partners. We currently have established three prime brokerage relationships with major financial institutions, including Deutsche Bank, UBS, and RBS, which act as central hubs through which we are able to deal with our existing wholesale forex trading partners. Although we have relationships with wholesale forex trading partners who could provide clearing services as a back-up for our prime brokerage services, if we were to experience a disruption in prime brokerage services due to a financial, technical or other development adversely affecting any of our current prime brokers, our business could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to transfer positions and margin balances to another financial institution in a timely fashion. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker, we might not be able to fully recover the assets we have deposited (and have deposited on behalf of our customers) with the prime broker or our unrealized profits since we will be among the prime broker’s unsecured creditors. A Systemic Market Event That Impacts the Various Market Participants With Whom We Interact Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We interact with various third parties through our relationships with our prime brokers, wholesale forex trading partners, white label partners and introducing brokers. Some of these market participants could be overleveraged. In the event of sudden, large market price movements, such market participants may not be able to meet their obligations to brokers who, in turn, may not be able to meet their obligations to their counterparties. As a result, a system collapse in the financial system could occur, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We Are Subject to Risk of Default by Financial Institutions That Hold Our Funds and Our Customers’ Funds. We have significant deposits with banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to CFTC and NFA regulations for our U.S.-regulated subsidiaries, we are not required to segregate customer funds from our own funds. As such, we aggregate our customers’ funds and our funds and hold them in collateral and deposit accounts at various financial institutions. In the event of insolvency of one or more of the financial institutions with which we have deposited these funds, both us and our customers may not be able to recover our funds. Because our customers’ funds are aggregated with our own, the extent to which they will be entitled to insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is uncertain. In any such insolvency we and our customers would rank as unsecured creditors in respect of claims to funds deposited with any such financial institution. As a result, we may be subject to claims by customers due to the loss of such funds and our business would be harmed by the loss of our funds. We Are Subject to Counterparty Risk Whereby Defaults by Parties With Whom We Do Business Can Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. Our operations require a commitment of capital and involve risks of losses due to the potential failure of our customers to perform their obligations under their transactions with us. Our margin policy allows customers to leverage their account balances by trading notional amounts that may be significantly larger than their cash balances. We mark our customers’ accounts to market each time a currency price in their portfolio changes. While this allows us to closely monitor each customer’s exposure, it does not guarantee our ability to eliminate negative customer account balances prior to an adverse currency price change. Although we have the ability to alter our margin requirements without prior notice to our customers, this may not eliminate the risk that our access to liquidity becomes limited or market conditions, including currency price volatility and liquidity constraints, change faster than our ability to modify our margin requirements. If our customers default on their obligations, we remain financially liable for such obligations, and although these obligations are collateralized, 45 Table of Contents since the value of our customers’ forex positions is subject to fluctuation as market prices change, we are subject to market risk in the liquidation of customer collateral to satisfy such obligations. In light of the current turbulence in the global economy, we face increased risk of default by our customers and other counterparties. For example, during the second half of 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. declared bankruptcy, and many major U.S. financial institutions were forced to merge or were put into conservatorship by the U.S. federal government. Any default by our counterparties or partners could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Failure of Third-Party Systems or Third-Party Service and Software Providers Upon Which We Rely Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We rely on certain third-party computer systems or third-party service and software providers, including trading platforms, back-office systems, Internet service providers and communications facilities. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2010, 30.5% of our forex trading volume was derived from trades utilizing the MetaTrader platform, a third-party trading platform we license that is popular in the international retail trading community and offers our customers a choice in trading interfaces. Additionally, we also rely on an agreement we entered into with Trading Central whereby Trading Central will provide us with investment research that we distribute to our customers. Any interruption in these third-party services, or deterioration in their performance or quality, could adversely affect our business. If our arrangement with any third party is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative systems or services provider on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Our Computer Infrastructure May Be Vulnerable to Security Breaches. Any Such Problems Could Jeopardize Confidential Information Transmitted Over the Internet, Cause Interruptions in Our Operations or Give Rise to Liabilities to Third Parties. Our computer infrastructure is potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic computer break-ins, viruses and similar disruptive problems and security breaches. Any such problems or security breaches could give rise to liabilities to one or more third parties, including our customers, and disrupt our operations. A party able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or customer information, jeopardize the confidential nature of information we transmit over the Internet or cause interruptions in our operations. Concerns over the security of Internet transactions and the safeguarding of confidential personal information could also inhibit our customers’ use of our systems to conduct forex transactions over the Internet. To the extent that our activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and personal financial information, security breaches could expose us to a risk of financial loss, litigation and other liabilities. Our current insurance policies may not protect us against all of such losses and liabilities. Any of these events, particularly if they result in a loss of confidence in our services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We Have Relationships With Introducing Brokers Who Direct New Customers to Us. Failure to Maintain These Relationships Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We have relationships with introducing brokers who direct new customers to us and provide marketing and other services for these customers. In certain jurisdictions, we are only able to provide our services through introducing brokers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 36.0% of our forex trading volume was derived from introducing brokers. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are nonexclusive or may be terminated by the brokers on short notice. In addition, under our agreements with introducing brokers, they have no obligation to provide us with new customers or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these introducing brokers, the failure of the introducing brokers to provide us with customers or our failure to create new relationships with introducing brokers would result in a loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash 46 Table of Contents flows. To the extent any of our competitor’s offers more attractive compensation terms to one of our introducing brokers, we could lose the broker’s services or be required to increase the compensation we pay to retain the broker. In addition, we may agree to set the compensation for one or more introducing brokers at a level where, based on the transaction volume generated by customers directed to us by such brokers, it would have been more economically attractive to seek to acquire the customers directly rather than through the introducing broker. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 5.6% of our forex trading volume was derived from TradeStation Securities, Inc., or TradeStation, one of our largest introducing brokers. TradeStation recently formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, TradeStation Forex, Inc., to assume, own and conduct all of TradeStation’s forex brokerage business. TradeStation Forex Inc.’s application for CFTC registration and NFA membership was recently approved and we are awaiting notice from TradeStation that it has obtained all other required approvals and wishes to have us transfer our TradeStation-introduced customers to it. We may be unable to offset the loss of TradeStation with new introducing brokers, if at all. If we do not enter into the most economically attractive relationships with introducing brokers, our introducing brokers terminate their relationship with us or our introducing brokers fail to provide us with customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows would be materially, adversely affected. Our Relationships With Our Introducing Brokers May Also Expose Us to Significant Reputational and Other Risks as We Could Be Harmed by Introducing Broker Misconduct or Errors That Are Difficult to Detect and Deter. It may be perceived that we are responsible for the improper conduct by our introducing brokers, even though we do not control their activities. Many of our introducing brokers operate websites, which they use to advertise our services or direct customers to us. It is difficult for us to closely monitor the contents of their websites to ensure that the statements they make in relation to our services are accurate and comply with applicable rules and regulations. While historically we have been responsible for the activities of our introducing brokers that were not members or associates of NFA and subject to disciplinary action for failure to adequately supervise them, under the new NFA and CFTC rules, we are no longer responsible for the activities of any party that solicits or introduces a customer to us, as our introducing brokers will now be required to be members of the NFA and are therefore directly supervised by the NFA. However, it may be perceived that we are responsible for any misleading statements about us made on websites of our introducing brokers and any disciplinary action taken against any of our introducing brokers in the United States and abroad could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, damage our brand name and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. We Have Relationships With White Label Partners Who Direct Customer Trading Volume to Us. Failure to Maintain These Relationships or Develop New White Label Partner Relationships Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We have relationships with white label partners who provide forex trading to their customers by using our trading platform and other services and, therefore, provide us with an additional source of revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 8.7% of our forex trading volume was derived from white label partners. Many of our relationships with white label partners are non-exclusive or may be terminated by them on short notice. In addition, our white label partners have no obligation to provide us with minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these white label partners, the failure of these white label partners to continue to offer online forex trading services to their customers using our trading platform, the loss of requisite licenses by our white label partners or our inability to enter into new relationships with white label partners would result in a loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. To the extent any of our competitor’s offers more attractive compensation terms to one or more of our white label partners, we could lose the white label partnership or be required to increase the compensation we pay to retain the white label partner. Our relationships with our white label partners also may expose us to significant regulatory, reputational and other risks as we could be harmed by white label partner misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter. If 47 Table of Contents any of our white label partners provided unsatisfactory service to their customers or were deemed to have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations, our reputation may be harmed as a result of our affiliation with such white label partner. Any such harm to our reputation would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to our Common Stock An Active Trading Market for Our Common Stock May Not Develop, Which May Cause Our Common Stock to Trade at a Discount From the Initial Offering Price and Make It Difficult for You to Sell the Shares You Purchase. Prior to the initial public offering of our common stock in December 2010 there was no public trading market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development or maintenance of an active trading market. If an active trading market does not develop, there may be difficulty selling any shares of our common stock. The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Be Volatile. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, some of which are beyond our control, could affect the market price of our common stock: • quarterly variations in our results of operations and cash flows or the results of operations and cash flows of our competitors; • our failure to achieve actual operating results that meet or exceed guidance that we may have provided due to factors beyond our control, such as currency volatility and trading volumes; • future announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the announcement of acquisitions; • changes in government regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or licensure; • public perceptions of risks associated with our services or operations; • developments in our industry; and • general economic, market and political conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. If Securities or Industry Analysts Do Not Publish Research or Reports About Our Business, if They Change Their Recommendations Regarding Our Common Stock Adversely, or if We Fail to Achieve Analysts’ Earnings Estimates, the Market Price and Trading Volume of Our Common Stock Could Decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us or our industry make unfavorable comments about our market opportunity or business, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. On our part, if we fail to achieve analysts’ earnings estimates, the market price of our common stock would also likely decline. Because We Do Not Intend to Pay Dividends for the Foreseeable Future, Investors Will Benefit From Their Investment in Shares Only if Our Common Stock Appreciates in Value. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. Our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which investors have purchased their shares. 48 Table of Contents Certain Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation May Prevent Efforts by Our Stockholders to Change Our Direction or Management. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. We could issue a series of preferred stock that could impede the completion of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including through transactions, and, in particular, unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. We Cannot Predict Our Future Capital Needs. As a Result, We May Need to Raise Significant Amounts of Additional Capital. We May Be Unable to Obtain the Necessary Capital When We Need It, or on Acceptable Terms, if at All. Our business depends on the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. Historically, we have satisfied these needs from internally generated funds and from our preferred equity securities financings. While we currently anticipate that our available cash resources will be sufficient to meet our presently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may need to raise additional funds to: • support more rapid expansion; • develop new or enhanced services and products; • respond to competitive pressures; • acquire complementary businesses, products or technologies; or • respond to unanticipated requirements. Additional financing may not be available when needed on terms favorable to us. Our Management and Other Affiliates Have Significant Control of Our Common Stock and Could Control Our Actions in a Manner That Conflicts With Our Interests and the Interests of Other Stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, our executive officers, directors and our current 5.0% stockholders and their affiliated entities together beneficially owned approximately 71.0% of our outstanding capital stock. VantagePoint Venture Partners IV(Q), L.P., VantagePoint Venture Partners IV, L.P., VantagePoint Venture Partners IV Principals Fund, L.P., VP New York Venture Partners, L.P., referred to herein as the VPVP Funds, 3i U.S. Growth Partners L.P., 3i Technology Partners III L.P., 3i Growth Capital (USA) D L.P., 3i Growth Capital (USA) E L.P. 3i Growth Capital (USA) P L.P., and Edison Venture Fund IV SBIC, L.P., collectively referred to herein as the Venture Funds, together beneficially owned approximately 57.3% of our outstanding capital stock as of December 31, 2010. Two of our directors, Messrs. Sugden and Mills, are affiliated with their respective venture fund. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, and may not always act in the best interests of other stockholders. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, until the earlier of (i) such time that the VPVP Funds own less than 50% of all shares of our common stock that the VPVP Funds owned upon the completion of our initial public offering, (ii) immediately prior to our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and (iii) such time that the VPVP Funds notify our board of directors that they no longer 49 Table of Contents require that an individual designated by them serve on our board of directors, the VPVP Funds have the right to nominate one individual in the slate of director nominees for election at our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders and have such designee serve on our board of directors. Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting May Not Be Effective and Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm May Not Be Able to Certify as to Their Effectiveness, Which Could Have a Significant and Adverse Effect on Our Business and Reputation. We are evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which includes annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses the effectiveness of internal controls. As we continue our evaluation, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. We will be required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 for the year ending December 31, 2011. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to opine as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Shareholders May Be Diluted by the Future Issuance of Additional Common Stock in Connection With Our Incentive Plans, Acquisitions or Otherwise. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 28.8 million shares of common stock authorized but unissued. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions, in future common stock offerings or otherwise. We have reserved an aggregate of 8.5 million shares for issuance under our equity incentive compensation plans (1.4 million to be issued pursuant to future awards and grants under the 2010 Omnibus Incentive Compensation plan, or the 2010 plan, 6.6 million shares that are subject to outstanding grants under the 2006 Plan as of the effective date of the 2010 Plan, and 0.5 million shares to be issued pursuant to the 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan). Any common stock that we issue, including under our 2010 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, will dilute the percentage ownership held by investors who own our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments. 50 Table of Contents 