Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objective. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face, and we may face other risks that we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Portfolio Company Investments Our investments in the later stage, private, pre-IPO companies that we target may be extremely risky, and we could lose all or part of our investments. Investments in the later stage, private, pre-IPO companies that we target involve a number of significant risks, including: ● They typically have limited operating histories, narrower, less established product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions, market conditions and consumer sentiment in respect of their products or services, as well as general economic downturns. Substantially all of our portfolio companies may experience operating losses, which may be substantial, and there can be no assurance when or if such companies will operate at a profit. ● They may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their existing credit facilities (to the extent that such facilities exist), which may lead to equity financings, possibly at discounted valuations, in which we could be substantially diluted if we do not or cannot participate, bankruptcy or liquidation and the reduction or loss of our equity investment. The companies in which we invest may have substantial debt loads and, in such cases, our equity investments would typically be last in line behind any creditors in a bankruptcy or liquidation. ● At the time of our investment, there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses since they are primarily privately owned; therefore, although our investment adviser’s representatives will perform due diligence investigations on these portfolio companies, their operations and their prospects, we may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses. At the time of our investment, we may only have access to the portfolio company’s actual financial results as of and for the most recent quarter end or, in certain cases, the quarter end preceding the most recent quarter end. There can be no assurance that the information that we do obtain with respect to any investment is reliable. ● They are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us. ● They generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. ● Continued global economic uncertainty could also result in investors becoming more risk-averse, which in turn could reduce the amount of growth capital available to our portfolio companies from both existing and new investors, could adversely affect their operating performance, and could delay liquidity paths (for example, IPO or strategic sale) for our portfolio companies. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our equity investment in such portfolio company. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery of our equity investment or to negotiate new terms with a financially distressed portfolio company. 24 The securities of our private portfolio companies are illiquid, and the inability of these portfolio companies to complete an IPO within our targeted time frame will extend the holding period of our investments, may adversely affect the value of these investments, and will delay the distribution of gains, if any. Since 1998, the number of venture capital-backed companies that have been able to complete IPOs has fallen. Although the IPO market showed signs of improvement in 2011, the level of IPOs remains significantly lower than the prior decade. The current IPO market continues to be volatile with IPO “windows,” or the periods of days or weeks in which new IPOs will be launched, being short and unpredictable even for the most qualified companies. A lack of IPO opportunities for venture capital-backed companies could lead to companies staying longer in our portfolio as private entities still requiring funding. This situation may adversely affect the amount of available venture capital funding to late-stage companies that cannot complete an IPO. Such stagnation could dampen returns or could lead to unrealized depreciation and realized losses as some companies run short of cash and have to accept lower valuations in private fundings or are not able to access additional capital at all. A lack of IPO opportunities for venture capital-backed companies may also cause some venture capital firms to change their strategies, leading some of them to reduce funding of their portfolio companies and making it more difficult for such companies to access capital. This might result in unrealized depreciation and realized losses in such companies by other investment funds, like us, who are co-investors in such companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our targeted return on our portfolio company investments if and when they go public. The equity securities we acquire in a private company are generally subject to contractual transfer limitations imposed on the company’s stockholders as well as other contractual obligations, such as rights of first refusal and co-sale rights. These obligations generally expire only upon an IPO by the company. As a result, prior to an IPO, our ability to liquidate our private portfolio company positions may be constrained. Transfer restrictions could limit our ability to liquidate our positions in these securities if we are unable to find buyers acceptable to our portfolio companies, or where applicable, their stockholders. Such buyers may not be willing to purchase our investments at adequate prices or in volumes sufficient to liquidate our position, and even where they are willing, other stockholders could exercise their co-sale rights to participate in the sale, thereby reducing the number of shares available to sell by us. Furthermore, prospective buyers may be deterred from entering into purchase transactions with us due to the delay and uncertainty that these transfer and other limitations create. If the private companies in which we invest do not perform as planned, they may be unable to successfully complete an IPO within our targeted 18-month time frame, or at all, or may decide to abandon their plans for an IPO. In such cases, we will likely exceed our targeted 36-month holding period and the value of these investments may decline substantially if an IPO exit is no longer viable. We may also be forced to take other steps to exit these investments, including the use of the trading platforms of private secondary marketplaces that specialize in the trading of private company securities. Although we expect that some of our equity investments will trade on these platforms, the securities we hold will typically be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale that may prevent us from using these platforms or otherwise selling our securities, and will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. Furthermore, trading in private securities markets involves risks given the possible imbalance of information between such transaction participants. In addition, while some portfolio companies may trade on the trading platforms of private secondary marketplaces, we can provide no assurance that such a trading market will be available for particular companies, will continue or remain active, or that we will be able to sell our position in any portfolio company at the time we desire to do so and at the price we anticipate. The prices of securities on private secondary marketplaces may be subject to irregular trading activity, wide bid/ask spreads and extended trade settlement periods, which may cause an inability for us to realize full value on our investment. In addition, wide swings in market prices, which are typical of irregularly traded securities, could cause significant and unexpected declines in the value of our portfolio investments. Further, prices in private secondary marketplaces, where limited information is available, may not accurately reflect the true value of a portfolio company, and may in certain cases understate a portfolio company’s actual value, which may cause us to realize future capital losses on our investment in that portfolio company. The illiquidity of our private portfolio company investments, including those that are traded on the trading platforms of private secondary marketplaces, may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. Also, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We will have no limitation on the portion of our portfolio that may be invested in illiquid securities, and we anticipate that all or a substantial portion of our portfolio may be invested in such illiquid securities at all times. Due to the inherent uncertainty in determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of our investments determined in good faith by our Board may differ significantly from the value that would have been used had a ready market existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. In addition, even if a portfolio company completes an IPO, we will typically not be able to sell our position until the post-IPO lockup expires, which generally means we will be required to hold our investments for at least 24 months before we are able to begin selling. As a result of lockup restrictions, the market price of securities that we hold may decline substantially before we are able to sell them following an IPO. 25 There are significant potential risks associated with investing in venture capital-backed, later stage, pre-IPO companies with complex capital structures. We invest primarily in venture capital-backed, later stage, pre-IPO companies, primarily through direct investments in these companies and, to a lesser extent, through private secondary transactions which we negotiate with selling stockholders in these portfolio companies. Such private companies frequently have much more complex capital structures than traditional publicly-traded companies, and may have multiple classes of common and preferred equity securities with differing rights, including with respect to voting, dividends, redemptions, liquidation, and conversion rights. Although we seek to invest in the most senior class of securities or obtain other structural protections, the seniority and protections provided in these types of investments may be diminished if the portfolio company issues more senior securities in a subsequent financing round. Our investment adviser typically requires information on the private company’s capital structure as part of its due diligence process. Although we believe that our investment adviser’s principals have extensive experience evaluating and investing in private companies with such complex capital structures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately evaluate the relative risks and benefits of investing in a particular class of a portfolio company’s equity securities. Any failure on our part to properly evaluate the relative rights and value of a class of securities in which we invest could cause us to lose part or all of our investment, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our net asset value and results of operations. There are significant potential risks associated with investing in private secondary transactions which we negotiate with selling stockholders in portfolio companies that meet our investment criteria. We may acquire equity investments in privately-held companies that meet our investment criteria directly from current or former management and early stage investors that are interested in selling privately. We may also acquire shares in these private secondary transactions from current or former non-management employees where the company or its management is coordinating the transaction process. We will typically source these negotiated transactions from investment bankers or through our other relationships. We intend to focus on transactions where we will have access to management, as well as financial data and other information about the private company. This management access is important to assure the flow of the company’s financial and other information to us both before and after our investment. Although we do not intend to place bids for positions listed on the trading platforms of private secondary marketplaces, to the extent we did so, our access to information regarding the target company would be limited. In any case, there can be no assurance that our investment adviser will be able to acquire adequate information on which to make its investment decision with respect to any private secondary purchases, or that the information it is able to obtain is current, accurate or complete. Any failure to obtain full and complete information regarding the portfolio companies with respect to which we invest through private secondary transactions could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in such companies, which would have a material and adverse effect on our net asset value and results of operations. Investments in private companies through private secondary transactions also entail additional legal and regulatory risks which expose participants to the risk of liability due to the imbalance of information among participants and participant qualification and other transactional requirements applicable to private securities transactions, the non-compliance with which could result in rescission rights and monetary and other sanctions. In addition, private block sales of shares may be restricted by contractual transfer restrictions and company policies, which may impose strict limits on transfer, including veto rights or rights of first refusal in favor of the company and other stockholders. As a result, we may be unable to complete a purchase transaction if the subject company or its stockholders chooses to exercise a veto right or right of first refusal. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Our investment objective is to maximize capital appreciation, which we seek to accomplish by making investments in the equity securities of later stage, typically venture capital backed, pre-IPO companies. Unlike most business development companies that are focused on investing in debt securities that generate current yield for their stockholders, our portfolio companies typically do not pay dividends and, as a result, we are unable to pass this source of current income through to our stockholders. Any gains that we may realize, and the source of distributions to our stockholders, will come solely from the disposition of the equity interests we acquire in our portfolio companies. These equity interests may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. In addition, the private company securities we acquire are often subject to drag-along rights, which could permit other stockholders, under certain circumstances, to force us to liquidate our position in a subject company at a specified price, which could be inadequate or undesirable or even below our cost basis. In this event, we could realize a loss or fail to realize a gain in an amount that we deem an appropriate return on our investment. Further, capital markets volatility and the overall market environment may preclude our portfolio companies from completing an IPO and impede our exit from these investments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We will generally have little, if any, control over the timing of any gains we may realize from our equity investments. 26 Even if our portfolio companies are successful in completing an IPO, there is no assurance that they will be able to achieve their projected revenue and earnings targets or effectively maintain their status as public reporting companies. In such case, there may be little or no demand for the securities of our portfolio companies in the public markets, we may have difficulty disposing of our investments, and the value of our investments may decline substantially. We are also typically prohibited from exiting investments in our publicly traded portfolio company until the expiration of the customary post-IPO lockup agreement. These agreements, which we are required to enter into as part of our initial investment, prohibit us and other significant existing investors from selling stock in the portfolio company or hedging such securities during the customary 180 days following an IPO. The market prices of our portfolio companies that have recently completed an IPO typically experience high volatility driven by such factors as overall market conditions, the industry conditions for the particular sector in which the portfolio company operates, the portfolio company’s performance, the relative size of the public float, and the potential selling activities of other pre-IPO investors and possibly management. Following the post-IPO lockup period, significant sales by other selling stockholders may result in a decrease in trading price, particularly if the stock has low trading volumes, which could result in significant market price volatility and a decline in the value of our investment. In such cases, the value of our investments may decline substantially or we may be forced to hold our positions for longer than we anticipated, or both. Our investment adviser may attempt to negotiate structural protections that are expected to provide for an enhanced return upon an IPO event or otherwise enhance our ability to meet our targeted return on our portfolio company investments. Such structural protections may include conversion rights which would result in our receiving shares of common stock at a discount to the IPO price upon conversion at the time of the IPO, or warrants that would result in our receiving additional shares for a nominal exercise price at the time of an IPO. Our ability to realize the value of these structural protections will depend on a number of factors including the completion of the IPO, any adjustment to the terms that may be negotiated during the IPO process, the possible subsequent issuance of more senior securities that may impact the relative value of our investment, and fluctuations in the market price of the shares during the pendency of lockup restrictions. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our targeted return on our portfolio company investments if and when they go public even where these structural protections exist. Because our investments are generally not in publicly traded securities, there will be uncertainty regarding the value of our investments, which could adversely affect the determination of our net asset value. Our portfolio investments will generally not be in publicly traded securities and, as a result, the fair value of our investments in portfolio companies will often not be readily determinable. At December 31, 2011, portfolio investments, which were valued at fair value by our Board of Directors, were approximately 45% of our gross assets. We expect our investments to continue to consist primarily of securities issued by privately-held companies, the fair value of which is not readily determinable, and the percentage of assets which will be valued at fair value by our Board of Directors is expected to increase as we continue to make additional investments in private portfolio companies. To the extent our Board of Directors has determined that an investment has increased in fair value, we record an increase in unrealized appreciation for that investment and, conversely, to the extent our Board of Directors has determined that an investment has decreased in fair value, we record a decrease in unrealized appreciation for that investment. The 1940 Act requires us to value each portfolio investment on a quarterly basis to determine our net asset value. Under the 1940 Act, unrestricted securities with readily available market quotations in an active market are valued at the closing market price on the valuation date; all other assets are valued at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based upon the recommendation of the Board of Director’s Valuation Committee in accordance with our written valuation policy. In connection with that determination, members of our investment adviser’s portfolio management team will prepare portfolio company valuations using the most recently available portfolio company financial statements and forecasts. The Valuation Committee intends to utilize the services of one or more independent valuation firms, which will conduct an initial valuation review of each new private portfolio company investment and, in accordance with our valuation policy, periodic updated valuation reviews for our portfolio investments that are not publicly traded. However, our Board of Directors will retain ultimate authority as to the appropriate valuation of each such investment. We typically obtain financial and other information with respect to private companies directly from our prospective portfolio companies during our due diligence process or from available public sources. We also generally have agreements with our portfolio companies to receive financial and other information with respect to private companies on a quarterly basis. However, for our quarterly fair value determinations, we typically will only have access to a portfolio company’s actual financial results as of and for the quarter end which precedes the quarter end for which our fair value determination relates. In addition, we typically only receive updated financial projections for a portfolio company on an annual basis. Due to the inherent uncertainty in determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of our investments determined in good faith by our Board of Directors may differ significantly from the value that would have been used had a ready market existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. There can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the fair value that our Board has determined for our portfolio company investments upon our disposition of such investments. 27 Because there is generally no established market in which to value our investments, our Board of Directors’ value determinations may differ materially from the values that a ready market or third party would attribute to these investments. There is generally no public market for the private equity securities in which we invest. Pursuant to the requirements of the 1940 Act, we value all of the privately held equity securities in our portfolio at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. The types of factors that the Valuation Committee will take into account in providing its fair value recommendation to our Board of Directors with respect to our private portfolio company investments will include, as relevant and, to the extent available, the portfolio company’s most recently available historical and projected financial results, industry valuation benchmarks and public market comparables, and other factors. The Valuation Committee also considers other events, including the transaction in which we acquired our securities, subsequent equity sales by the portfolio company, mergers or acquisitions affecting the portfolio company, or the completion of an IPO by the portfolio company. Our Valuation Committee also considers the trends of the portfolio company’s basic financial metrics from the time of our original investment until the valuation date, with material improvement of these metrics indicating a possible increase in fair value, while material deterioration of these metrics may indicate a possible reduction in fair value. The fair values of our portfolio company securities are generally discounted for lack of marketability or when the securities are illiquid, such as when there are restrictions on resale or the lack of an established trading market which will generally be the case for pre-IPO companies, as well as during any lockup period to which we are subject with respect to public companies in our portfolio. The fair value of our investments determined in good faith by our Board of Directors may differ significantly from the value that would have been used had a ready market existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the fair value that our Board has determined for our portfolio company investments upon our disposition of such investments. Our portfolio may be focused in a limited number of portfolio companies or industry sectors, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if the business or market position of these companies deteriorates or industry sectors experience a downturn. A consequence of our limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond our income tax asset diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few issuers. In addition, our investments may be concentrated in a limited number of industry sectors. We make investments in later stage, typically venture capital-backed, private, pre-IPO companies in the technology, Internet and software, and cleantech industries. As a result, a market downturn affecting one of our portfolio companies or one of these industry sectors could materially adversely affect us. We do not choose specific investments based on a strategy of industry diversification and do not intend to rebalance our portfolio if one of our portfolio company investments increases in value relative to the remaining portion of the portfolio. As a result, our portfolio may be more vulnerable to events affecting a single industry sector or portfolio company and, therefore, subject to greater potential volatility than a company that follows a more diversified strategy. Our investments in the clean technology industry are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, unproven technologies, periodic downturns, loss of government subsidies and incentives, and potential litigation. Our investments in clean technology, or cleantech, companies are subject to substantial operational risks, such as underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, loss of government subsidies, and inability to deliver cost-effective alternative energy solutions compared to traditional energy products. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction or acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risks arising from their specific business strategies. Furthermore, production levels for solar, wind and other renewable energies may be dependent upon adequate sunlight, wind, or biogas production, which can vary from market to market and period to period, resulting in volatility in production levels and profitability. In addition, our cleantech companies may have narrow product lines and small market shares, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as to general economic downturns. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of clean technology companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically and the markets in which clean technology companies operate are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition. Demand for clean technology and renewable energy is also influenced by the available supply and prices for other energy products, such as coal, oil and natural gases. A change in prices in these energy products could reduce demand for alternative energy. Our investments in cleantech companies also face potential litigation, including significant warranty and product liability claims, as well as class action and government claims arising from business failures of companies supported government subsidies. Such litigation could adversely affect the business and results of operations of our cleantech portfolio companies. There is also particular uncertainty about whether agreements providing government incentives and subsidies for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, such as the Kyoto Protocol, will continue and whether countries around the world will enact or maintain legislation that provides such incentives and subsidies for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, without which such investments in clean technology dependent portfolio companies may not be economical or financing for such projects may become unavailable. As a result, these portfolio company investments face considerable risk, including the risk that favorable regulatory regimes or government subsidies and incentives expire or are adversely modified. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect the value of the clean technology companies in our portfolio. 28 Our investments in Internet and software companies are subject to many risks, including regulatory concerns, litigation risks and intense competition. Our investments in Internet and software companies are subject to substantial risks. For example, our portfolio companies face intense competition since their businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and are subject to changing technology, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Internet and software companies have many competitors in different industries, including general purpose search engines, vertical search engines and e-commerce sites, social networking sites, traditional media companies, and providers of online products and services. Potential competitors to our portfolio companies in the Internet and software industries range from large and established companies to emerging start-ups. Further, such companies are subject to laws that were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. The laws that do reference the Internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by a company’s users, a company’s products and services, or content generated by a company’s users. Further, the growth of Internet and software companies into a variety of new fields implicate a variety of new regulatory issues and may subject such companies to increased regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. As a result, these portfolio company investments face considerable risk. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect the value of the Internet and software companies in our portfolio. Our investments in technology companies are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, shortened product life cycles, litigation risk and periodic downturn. We have invested and will continue investing in technology companies, many of which may have narrow product lines and small market shares, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as to general economic downturns. The revenues, income (or losses), and valuations of technology-related companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. In addition, technology-related markets are generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition, where the leading companies in any particular category may hold a highly concentrated percentage of the overall market share. Therefore, our portfolio companies may face considerably more risk of loss than do companies in other industry sectors. Because of rapid technological change, the selling prices of products and services provided by technology-related companies have historically decreased over their productive lives. As a result, the selling prices of products and services offered by technology-related companies may decrease over time, which could adversely affect their operating results, their ability to meet obligations under their debt securities and the value of their equity securities. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect the value of the technology-related companies in our portfolio. Our portfolio companies may issue additional securities or incur debt that ranks equal or senior to our investments in such companies and we may experience a complete loss on our equity investments in the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation of any of our portfolio companies. We intend to invest primarily in equity securities issued by our portfolio companies. The equity securities that we acquire directly from an issuer are typically the issuer’s most senior preferred stock at the time of our investment or, in cases where we acquire common shares, the issuer typically has only common stock outstanding. The equity securities that we acquire directly from selling stockholders in private secondary transactions are typically common stock and may not represent the most senior equity securities of the issuer. The portfolio companies may be permitted to issue additional securities or incur other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the equity securities in which we invest. By their terms, such other securities (especially if they are debt securities) may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal before we are entitled to receive any distribution from the portfolio companies. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before equity investors like us may receive any distribution in respect of our investment, and holders of more senior classes of preferred stock (if any are issued) would typically be entitled to receive full or partial payment in preference to any distribution to us. After repaying such senior creditors or preferred stockholders, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to distribute to us, and we may experience a complete loss on our investment. We may be limited in our ability to make follow-on investments, and our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: (i) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (ii) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (iii) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. 29 We may elect not to make follow-on investments, or may otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments or lack access to desired follow-on investment opportunities. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources and of the investment opportunity. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status or lack access to the desired follow-on investment opportunity. Our failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. We may be required to make additional investments in our portfolio companies, from time to time, to fund their operations. If we elect not to fund our pro rata share of these additional investments, there may be adverse consequences to our initial investment including the forced conversion of our preferred stock into common stock at an unfavorable conversion rate and the corresponding loss of any liquation preferences or other rights and privileges that may be applicable to the securities we currently hold. While we typically do not intend to purchase stock in a portfolio company’s IPO or in open market transactions thereafter, under certain circumstances, we may consider making additional investments a publicly traded portfolio company in open market purchases, which will increase our position in the company. We typically will consider open market purchases of shares in our publicly traded portfolio companies as a means to bring our overall investment closer to our targeted 5% of our gross assets per portfolio company investment. In such cases, our initial private investments may have been limited due to the level of our gross assets at the time of the initial investment. However, we may be unable to make follow-on investments in our publicly traded portfolio companies as a result of certain regulatory restrictions on a business development company’s investments in publicly traded securities with market capitalizations in excess of $250 million. Because we likely will not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over such portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of such portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We typically do not seek board seats, observation rights or other control features in our investments. As a result, our equity investments will typically be non-control investments, meaning we will not be in a position to control the management, operation and strategic decision-making of the companies we invest in. As a result, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. In addition, other shareholders, such as venture capital and private equity sponsors that have substantial investments in our portfolio companies, may have interests that differ from that of the portfolio company or its minority shareholders, which may lead them to take actions that could materially and adversely affect the value of our investment in the portfolio company. Due to the lack of liquidity for the equity and equity-related investments that we will typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event that we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company or its substantial stockholders, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. As a business development company, we may not acquire any asset other than qualifying assets, as defined under the 1940 Act, unless at the time the acquisition is made such qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the value of our total assets. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be precluded from investing in assets that we deem to be attractive. As a business development company, we generally may not acquire any asset other than qualifying assets, as defined under the 1940 Act, unless at the time the acquisition is made qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the value of our total assets. Qualifying assets include investments in U.S. operating companies whose securities are not listed on a national securities exchange and companies listed on a national securities exchange subject to a market capitalization limit of $250 million. Qualifying assets also include cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. We believe that most of our portfolio company investments will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we will be prohibited from making any additional investment that is not a qualifying asset and could be forced to forgo attractive investment opportunities. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position). Investments in foreign companies may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. While we invest primarily in U.S. companies, we may invest on an opportunistic basis in certain non-U.S. companies, including those located in emerging markets, that otherwise meet our investment criteria, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. Investing in foreign companies, and particularly those in emerging markets, may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. issues. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Further, we may have difficulty enforcing our rights as equity holders in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, to the extent we invest in non-U.S. companies, we may face greater exposure to foreign economic developments. 30 Although we expect that most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, any investments denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We are a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, and therefore we generally are not limited with respect to the proportion of our assets that may be invested in securities of a single issuer. We are classified as a non-diversified investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act, which means that we are not limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the proportion of our assets that we may invest in securities of a single issuer, excluding limitations on investments in other investment companies. To the extent that we assume large positions in the securities of a small number of issuers, our net asset value may fluctuate to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company as a result of changes in the financial condition or the market’s assessment of the issuer. We may also be more susceptible to any single economic or regulatory occurrence than a diversified investment company. Beyond our income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We have a limited operating history, and there is no assurance that we will achieve our investment objective. We were initially formed in May 2008 and made our first portfolio company investment in January 2010. We completed our continuous public offering on June 30, 2011 raising $78.4 million, net of issuance costs. As of December 31, 2011, we have made investments of $35.9 million in 14 portfolio companies. Based on our current cash available for investment, we currently expect to become fully invested by the second quarter of 2012, although we intend to retain a cash reserve of approximately $10 million to fund our future operating expenses. As of December 31, 2011, we have not disposed of any of our portfolio company positions to date. As a result, we have limited financial information on which you can evaluate an investment in our company or our prior performance. In addition, our investment adviser, Keating Investments, has only a limited history of investing experience, managing a pool of assets substantially smaller than the net proceeds that we raised in our continuous public offering. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially or become worthless. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. We intend to continue to qualify as a business development company under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of eligible portfolio companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. Upon approval of a majority of our stockholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a business development company. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to qualify, or maintain our qualification, as a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility and increase our costs of doing business. We are dependent upon Keating Investments’ principals, Timothy J. Keating, Kyle L. Rogers and Frederic M. Schweiger, for our future success. If we lose any of our investment adviser’s principals, our ability to implement our business strategy could be significantly harmed. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of Keating Investments’ principals. The principals, together with other investment professionals employed by Keating Investments, identify, evaluate, negotiate, structure, close, monitor and service our investments. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of Keating Investments’ principals, Timothy J. Keating, Kyle L. Rogers and Frederic M. Schweiger. Keating Investments has established an Investment Committee that must unanimously approve each new portfolio company investment that we make. Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger are the current members of the Investment Committee. However, as the managing member of Keating Investments, Mr. Keating has sole control over the appointment and removal of the members of the Investment Committee and neither we nor our Board of Directors has any direct participation on the selection of members to the Investment Committee. None of Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger is subject to an employment contract, and none receive any compensation directly from us. While Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger currently devote substantially all of their business time to our operations, we expect that one of more of them will have other demands on their time as a result of Keating Investments’ contemplated launch of other entities to which they intend to provide investment advisory services. We do not carry key-man life insurance on the lives of Messrs. Keating, Rogers or Schweiger. The departure of any of these principals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. 31 None of Keating Investments’ principals or other investment professionals, including Timothy J. Keating, Kyle L. Rogers and Frederic M. Schweiger, are subject to employment agreements, and there can be no assurance that our investment adviser will be successful in retaining its principals or other investment professionals. None of Keating Investments’ principals or other investment professionals, Timothy J. Keating, Kyle L. Rogers and Frederic M. Schweiger, are subject to employment agreements. As a result, although Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger comprise the principals of Keating Investments, they are free to terminate their employment with Keating Investments at any time. In addition, none of our investment adviser’s principals or other investment professionals, including Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger, are subject to any non-compete agreements that would restrict their ability to provide investment advisory services to an entity with an investment objective similar to our own in the event they were to terminate their employment with Keating Investments, or if Keating Investments were to no longer serve as our investment adviser. Currently, Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger devote substantially all of their business time to our operations. However, we expect that one or more of Keating Investments’ principals and investment professionals may in the future have other demands on their time as a result of Keating Investments providing investment advisory services to other entities. Further, our investment adviser, its principals, investment professionals and employees and the members of its Investment Committee may serve as investment advisers, officers, directors or principals of entities or investment funds that operate in the same or a related line of business as us and/or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. There can be no assurance that our investment adviser will be successful in retaining its principals and other investment professionals, including Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger. The departure of any of Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. Our growth will require that Keating Investments retain and attract new investment and administrative personnel in a competitive market. Its ability to attract and retain personnel with the requisite credentials, experience and skills will depend on several factors including, but not limited to, its ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. Many of the entities with which Keating Investments will compete for experienced personnel, including investment funds (such as private equity funds and mezzanine funds) and traditional financial services companies, will have greater resources than it. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to achieve our investment objective. Although Keating Investments has been an investment adviser registered under the Advisors Act since 2001, it had no prior experience in managing a business development company or a pool of assets of the amount we raised in our continuous public offering. In addition, since we have not disposed of any of our portfolio company positions as of December 31, 2011, we have limited financial information on which you can evaluate an investment in our company or the prior performance of us or our investment adviser. As such, we are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, analyze and invest in companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our investment adviser’s proper structuring of the investment process and its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us. We seek a specified number of investments in later stage, private pre-IPO companies, which may be extremely risky. There can be no assurance that Keating Investments will be successful in identifying and investing in companies that meet our investment criteria, or that we will achieve our investment objective or be able to achieve our targeted return on our portfolio company investments if and when they go public. Because the portfolio company securities that we acquire are typically illiquid until an IPO or sale of the company, we generally cannot predict the regularity and time periods between dispositions of our portfolio company investments and the realizations of capital gains, if any, from such dispositions. Dispositions of our portfolio company investments are discretionary and based on our investment adviser’s business judgment. Since we do not expect to generate current income from our portfolio company investments, our annual operating expenses will be financed from our capital base during periods of time between realizations of capital gains on our investments. In addition, if we are successful in disposing of a portfolio company investment, we intend to reinvest the principal amount of our investment in new portfolio company opportunities, with any gain that we may realized being distributed to our stockholders after we pay any incentive fees earned by our investment adviser and our operating expenses. Even if we are able to grow and build upon our investment operations, any failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The results of our operations will depend on many factors, including the availability of opportunities for investment, our ability to access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments once we are fully invested, and economic conditions. Furthermore, if we cannot successfully operate our business or implement our investment policies and strategies as described herein, it could negatively impact our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. 32 We may experience fluctuations in our periodic results, and if we fail to achieve our investment objective, the net asset value of our common stock may decline. We could experience fluctuations in our periodic results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on our borrowings and the dividend rates on any preferred stock we may issue), variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and gains or losses and unrealized appreciation and depreciation, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Our periodic results will also be affected by the ability of our private portfolio companies to complete their IPOs in our targeted 18-month time frame, the strength of the IPO market and the level of stock market volatility in general. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Our business model depends upon the development and maintenance of strong referral relationships with venture capital firms and investment banks, and our direct outreach to private companies. We are substantially dependent on our relationships with venture capital firms and investment banks, which we use to help identify and gain access to investment opportunities, and our outreach to private companies that meet our investment criteria. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships, our relationships become strained as a result of enforcing our rights to protect our investments in certain portfolio companies, or we fail to develop new relationships with other firms or sources of investment opportunities, then we will not be able to grow our portfolio of equity investments and achieve our investment objective. In addition, persons with whom our investment adviser has relationships are not obligated to inform us of investment opportunities and therefore such relationships may not lead to the origination of equity investments. Any loss or diminishment of such relationships could effectively reduce our ability to identify attractive portfolio companies that meet our investment criteria, either for direct equity investments or for investments through private secondary transactions with selling stockholders in these portfolio companies. Our ability to grow will depend on our ability to raise capital, and a disruption in the capital markets or the credit markets could negatively affect our business. As a business development company, we need the ability to raise additional capital for investment purposes. Without sufficient access to the capital markets, we may be forced to curtail our business operations or we may not be able to pursue new investment opportunities. Disruptive conditions in the financial industry and any new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict our business operations and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Although we do not anticipate borrowing funds for investment purposes, to the extent we do utilize leverage and the fair value of our assets declines substantially, we may fail to maintain the asset coverage ratios imposed upon us by the 1940 Act. Any such failure would affect our ability to issue senior securities, including borrowings, and pay dividends, which could materially impair our business operations. Our liquidity could be impaired further by an inability to access the capital markets. For example, we cannot be certain that we will be able to raise additional equity capital to provide funding for normal operations, including new investments. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to certain borrowers. This market turmoil has led to increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. While market conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. For example, recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe have caused uncertainty in financial markets. Although the U.S. debt limit was increased, a failure to raise the U.S. debt limit and/or a downgrade of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms and the market value of the U.S. government securities that we hold, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our financial results and condition. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of equity investments that we target as part of our business strategy. We compete for such investments with a large number of venture capital funds, other equity and non-equity based investment funds, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and specialty finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than we can. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company and, as a result, such companies may be more successful in completing their investments. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. 33 The incentive fee may induce Keating Investments, our investment adviser, to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to Keating Investments may create an incentive for Keating Investments to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. Although the use of leverage is not currently contemplated, the way in which the incentive fee payable to Keating Investments is determined, which is calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital, may encourage Keating Investments to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. In addition, while leverage for investment purposes is not currently used or contemplated, the fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which would include any borrowings for investment purposes, may encourage Keating Investments to seek to use leverage to make additional investments. We will be required, however, to obtain the approval of our Board of Directors before we incur any indebtedness. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. In addition, our investment adviser has control over the timing of the acquisition and dispositions of our investments, and therefore over when we realize gains and losses on our investments. As a result, our investment adviser may face a conflict of interest in determining when it is appropriate to dispose of a specific investment to the extent doing so may serve to maximize its incentive fee at a point where disposing of such investment may not necessarily be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors monitors such conflicts of interest in connection with its review of the performance of our investment adviser under our Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement, as well as during its quarterly review of our financial performance and results of operations. We may borrow money, which would magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. Although we do not currently anticipate incurring leverage, if we do so we may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and other lenders. Lenders of such senior securities would have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the management fee payable to Keating Investments will be payable on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, Keating Investments may have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders’ interests. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to Keating Investments. Our potential use of borrowed funds to make investments may expose us to risks typically associated with leverage. We may borrow money and may issue debt securities or preferred stock to leverage our capital structure. If we do decide to use leverage: ● a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common shares than if we did not use leverage, therefore, shares of our common stock are exposed to incremental risk of loss; ● adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we make with the proceeds of any leverage; ● our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be restricted if our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness or preferred stock may not be available for such dividends; 34 ● such indebtedness would be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility; ● we, and indirectly our stockholders, would bear the cost of issuing and paying interest or dividends on such securities; and ● any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. Our base management fee may induce our investment advisor to incur leverage. Our base management fee is calculated on the basis of our total assets, including assets acquired with the proceeds of leverage. This may encourage our investment advisor to use leverage to increase the aggregate amount of and the return on our investments, even when it may not be appropriate to do so, and to refrain from delevering when it would otherwise be appropriate to do so. Under certain circumstances, the use of increased leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our common stock. Given the subjective nature of the investment decisions made by our investment adviser on our behalf, we will not be able to monitor this conflict of interest. There are significant potential conflicts of interest, which could impact our investment returns and limit the flexibility of our investment policies. We have entered into an Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement with Keating Investments. Keating Investments is controlled by Timothy J. Keating, who is Chairman of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer, Kyle L. Rogers, who is our Chief Investment Officer, and Frederic M. Schweiger, who is our Chief Operating Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary and a member of our Board of Directors. Messrs. Keating, Rogers and Schweiger, as principals of Keating Investments, collectively manage the business and internal affairs of Keating Investments. In addition, Keating Investments provides us with office facilities and administrative services pursuant to an Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement, without any profit to Keating Investments. Mr. Keating is the Managing Member of and controls Keating Investments. In addition, our executive officers and directors, and the principals of our investment adviser, may serve as officers, directors or principals of other entities or investment funds that operate in a line of business similar to our own. Accordingly, if this occurs, they have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. While we expect that the investment focus of each of these other entities will tend to be different from our investment objective, it is possible that new investment opportunities that meet our investment objective may come to the attention of one of these entities in connection with another investment advisory client or program, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. However, our executive officers, directors and investment adviser intend to treat us in a fair and equitable manner consistent with their applicable duties under law so that we will not be disadvantaged in relation to any other particular client. In addition, Keating Investments does not anticipate that it will ordinarily identify investment opportunities that are appropriate for both Keating Capital and the other funds that in the future may be managed by Keating Investments. However, to the extent it does identify such opportunities, Keating Investments will establish a procedure to ensure that such opportunities are allocated between Keating Capital and such other funds in a fair and equitable manner. Our Board of Directors will monitor on a quarterly basis any such allocation of investment opportunities between Keating Capital and any such other funds. In the ordinary course of business, we may enter into transactions with portfolio companies that may be considered related party transactions. In order to ensure that we do not engage in any prohibited transactions with any persons affiliated with us, we have implemented certain written policies and procedures whereby our executive officers screen each of our transactions for any possible affiliations between the proposed portfolio investment, us, companies controlled by us and our executive officers and directors. We will not enter into any agreements unless and until we are satisfied that doing so will not raise concerns under the 1940 Act or, if such concerns exist, we have taken appropriate actions to seek board review and approval or exemptive relief for such transaction. Our Board of Directors will review these procedures on an annual basis. We have also adopted a Code of Ethics which applies to, among others, our senior officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as well as all of our officers, directors and employees. Our officers and directors also remain subject to the fiduciary obligations imposed by both the 1940 Act and applicable state corporate law. Our Code of Ethics requires that all employees and directors avoid any conflict, or the appearance of a conflict, between an individual’s personal interests and our interests. Pursuant to our Code of Ethics, each employee and director must disclose any conflicts of interest, or actions or relationships that might give rise to a conflict, to our chief compliance officer. Our Board of Directors is charged with approving any waivers under our Code of Ethics. As required by the Nasdaq corporate governance listing standards, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is also required to review and approve any transactions with related parties, as such term is defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K. In accordance with Item 404, related parties generally include our directors and executive officers, any nominees for director, any immediate family member of a director or executive officer or nominee for director, and any other person sharing the household of such director, executive officer or nominee for director. 35 We pay Keating Investments our allocable portion of overhead and other expenses incurred by Keating Investments in performing its obligations under the Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement, including a portion of the rent and the compensation of our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer, and their respective staff, which creates conflicts of interest that our Board of Directors must monitor. Finally, we also entered into a license agreement with our investment adviser, pursuant to which our investment adviser granted us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Keating.” Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the “Keating” name and logo for so long as Keating Investments or one of its affiliates remains our investment adviser. Our investment adviser and its affiliates, officers and employees have certain conflicts of interest. Our investment adviser, its principals, investment professionals and employees and the members of its Investment Committee serve or may serve as investment advisers, officers, directors or principals of entities or investment funds that operate in the same or a related line of business as us and/or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, we note that any affiliated investment vehicle currently formed or formed in the future and managed by the adviser or its affiliates may have overlapping investment objectives with our own and, accordingly, may invest in asset classes similar to those targeted by us. As a result, our investment adviser and/or its affiliates may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and such other entities. Although our investment adviser and its affiliates will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner and consistent with applicable allocation procedures, it is possible that, in the future, we may not be given the opportunity to participate in investments made by investment funds managed by our investment adviser or its affiliates. In any such case, if our investment adviser forms other affiliates in the future, we may co-invest on a concurrent basis with such other affiliates, subject to compliance with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance, as well as applicable allocation procedures. In certain circumstances, negotiated co-investments may be made only if we receive an order from the SEC permitting us to do so. There can be no assurance when any such order would be obtained or that one will be obtained at all. Our investment adviser can resign on 120 days’ notice and we may be unable to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our investment adviser has the right, under our current Investment Advisory and Administrative Services Agreement, to resign at any time upon not less than 120 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If our investment adviser resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment adviser or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 120 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by our investment adviser and its affiliates. Even if we were able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective might result in additional costs and time delays that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Operating under the constraints imposed on us as a business development company may hinder the achievement of our investment objectives. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of U.S.-based private companies or public companies with market capitalizations of less than $250 million, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less. In addition, qualification for taxation as a RIC requires satisfaction of source-of-income, diversification and distribution requirements. These constraints, among others, may hinder Keating Investments’ ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objective. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to and the way in which we raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. Although leverage for investment purposes is not currently used or contemplated and there is no present intent to issue preferred stock, we may in the future issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Our Board of Directors is required under the 1940 Act to approve any issuance of senior securities. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that were to happen, we might be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. 36 If in the future we issue debt or preferred stock, all of the costs of offering and servicing such debt or preferred stock, including interest or preferential dividend payments thereon, will be borne by our common stockholders. The interests of the holders of any debt or preferred stock we may issue will not necessarily be aligned with the interests of our common stockholders. In particular, the rights of holders of our debt or preferred stock to receive interest, dividends or principal repayment will be senior to those of our common stockholders. Also, in the event we issue preferred stock, the holders of such preferred stock may have the ability to elect two members of our Board of Directors. In addition, we may grant a lender a security interest in a significant portion or all of our assets, even if the total amount we may borrow from such lender is less than the amount of such lender’s security interest in our assets. In no event, however, will any lender to us have any veto power over, or any vote with respect to, any change in our, or approval of any new, investment objective or investment policies or strategies. If our common stock trades below its net asset value per share, our ability to raise additional equity capital will be adversely affected, and any offering of our common stock at a price below net asset value will likely result in immediate dilution to investors upon the closing of any such offering. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of Keating Capital and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. If our common stock trades below net asset value, the higher dilution to our existing stockholders may result in it being unattractive to raise new equity, which may limit our ability to grow. The risk of trading below net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. If we were to issue shares at a price below net asset value, such sales would result in an immediate dilution to existing common stockholders, which would include a reduction in the net asset value per share as a result of the issuance. This dilution would also include a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. In addition, if we determined to conduct additional offerings in the future there may be even greater discounts if we determine to conduct such offerings at prices below net asset value. As a result, investors would experience further dilution and additional discounts to the price of our common stock. Because the number of shares of common stock that could be so issued and the timing of any issuance is not currently known, the actual dilutive effect of an offering cannot be predicted. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a regulated investment company, or RIC. Effective January 1, 2010, we elected to be treated for tax purposes as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under the Code. We intend to operate so as to qualify as a RIC in future tax years, however, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to qualify for and maintain RIC status in future years. In order to qualify for the special treatment accorded to a RIC, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. In order to satisfy the income source requirement, we must derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities or foreign currencies, income from “qualified publicly traded partnerships” or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock or securities. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. In order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement for a RIC, we distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income (which is generally our net ordinary income plus the excess, if any, of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses), if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Although no leverage is currently used or contemplated, because we may use additional debt financing in the future, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the annual distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for special tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax on all our income. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate-level federal taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. 37 We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. Although we focus on achieving capital gains from our investments, in certain limited cases we may receive current income, either through interest or dividend payments, on our investments. Because in certain cases we may recognize such current income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the base management fee will still be payable. The annual base management fee is calculated as 2% of the value of our gross assets, which we pay monthly in arrears. The base management fee is payable regardless of whether the value of our gross assets or your investment declines. As a result, we may owe Keating Investments a base management fee regardless of whether we incurred significant realized capital losses and unrealized capital depreciation (losses) during the period for which the base management fee is paid. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with the periodic reporting requirements applicable to a company whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, as well as additional corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and other rules implemented by the SEC. Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of our stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners. Our charter permits our Board of Directors to reclassify any authorized but unissued shares of stock into one or more classes of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors will generally have broad discretion over the size and timing of any such reclassification, subject to a finding that the reclassification and issuance of such preferred stock is in the best interests of Keating Capital and our existing common stockholders. Any issuance of preferred stock would be subject to certain limitations imposed under the 1940 Act, including the requirement that such preferred stock have equal voting rights with our outstanding common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and, as of December 31, 2011, we have 9,283,781 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. In the event our Board of Directors opts to reclassify a portion of our unissued shares of common stock into a class of preferred stock, those preferred shares would have a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. The cost of any such reclassification would be borne by our existing common stockholders. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that holders of preferred stock are entitled to vote separately from holders of common stock to elect two directors. As a result, our preferred stockholders would have the ability to reject a director that would otherwise be elected by our common stockholders. In addition, while Maryland law generally requires directors to act in the best interests of all of a corporation’s stockholders, there can be no assurance that a director elected by our preferred stockholders would not chose to act in a manner that tends to favors our preferred stockholders, particularly where there was a conflict between the interests of our preferred stockholders and our common stockholders. The class voting rights of any preferred shares we may issue could make it more difficult for us to take some actions that may, in the future, be proposed by the Board of Directors and/or the holders of our common stock, such as a merger, exchange of securities, liquidation, or alteration of the rights of a class of our securities, if these actions were perceived by the holders of preferred shares as not in their best interests. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objective, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our investment objective, current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval (except as required by the 1940 Act). We cannot predict the effect any changes to our investment objective, current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. For example, although the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, became effective on July 21, 2010, many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have delayed effectiveness or will not become effective until the relevant federal agencies issue new rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act. Any change in these laws or regulations, and the issuance of the implementing regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, could have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of your investment. 38 Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock from the Control Share Act under the Maryland General Corporation Law. If our Board of Directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, the Control Share Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Additionally, under our charter, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock; and our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. These antitakeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. Continued global economic uncertainty could materially adversely impact our business and the value of your investment. Beginning in the fall of 2008, the global economy entered a financial crisis and recession. Volatile capital and credit markets, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment precipitated a continuing economic slowdown. While certain economic conditions in the United States have shown signs of improvement, economic growth has been slow and uneven as consumers continue to be affected by high unemployment rates and depressed housing values. In addition, recent concerns and events such as economic uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform and its effect on the revenues of financial services companies, U.S. debt and budget matters and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, may continue to impact economic recovery and the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that governmental or other measures to aid economic recovery will be effective. During such economic uncertainty and market volatility, we may have difficulty raising equity capital to fund additional portfolio company investments once we become fully invested. Continued adverse economic conditions could also have a material adverse effect on our portfolio companies (including their ability to complete IPOs), our business and the value of your investment. The downgrade in the U.S. credit rating could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor's Rating Services (“S&P”) downgraded the U.S. credit rating from its top rank of AAA to AA+. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. Additionally, austerity measures necessary to reduce the deficit could result in a slowing economy in the near term. The impact of this or any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, and the impact of the current crisis in Europe with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations is inherently unpredictable and could adversely effect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. In addition, adverse market and economic conditions that could occur due to a downgrade of the U.S. credit rating on the United States' debt could result in increasing borrowing costs, a falling dollar, less stable financial markets and slowing or negative economic growth in the near term. These events could adversely affect our business in a variety ways, including, but not limited to, adversely impacting our portfolio companies’ ability to obtain financing, or obtaining financing but at significantly higher costs or lower valuations than the preceding financing rounds. Market disruptions could also delay the timing of going public by our private portfolio companies and affect the value of our publicly traded portfolio companies, which as of December 31, 2011, accounted for 7.2% percent of our investment portfolio and 3.5% of our gross assets. If any of these events were to occur, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, on August 8, 2011, S&P downgraded the credit ratings of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and other entities linked to long-term U.S. debt. A significant portion of our portfolio consists of money market funds that invest in U.S. Treasuries and other U.S. Government agency-backed securities. These money market funds could be adversely affected by these recent credit downgrades. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Investing in shares of our common stock is highly speculative and an investor could lose all or some of the amount invested. We are focused on capital appreciation and growth, which we seek to achieve through investments in the equity securities of later stage, private, pre-IPO companies. By design, our fund has been structured as a high risk/high return investment vehicle. Our investment objective and strategies result in a high degree of risk in our investments and may result in losses in the value of our investment portfolio. Our investments in portfolio companies are highly speculative and, therefore, an investor in our common stock may lose his entire investment. Write-downs of securities of our privately held companies will always be a by-product and risk of our business, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our targeted return on our portfolio company investments if and when they go public. An investment in our common stock may not be suitable for investors with lower risk tolerance. 39 Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially. Since the shares our common stock were listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market beginning December 12, 2011, the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. We expect that the trading price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock in the market on any particular day depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: ● price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; ● investor demand for our shares; ● significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of regulated investment companies, business development companies or other financial services companies; ● changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to regulated investment companies or business development companies; ● failure to qualify as a RIC for a particular taxable year, or the loss of RIC status; ● actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results and net asset value, or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; ● general economic conditions and trends; ● fluctuations in the valuation of our portfolio investments; ● public perception of the value of our portfolio companies; ● operating performance of companies comparable to us; ● market sentiment against the industry sectors in which invest in such as technology, Internet and software, and cleantech; or ● departures of any of the principals or other investment professionals of Keating Investments. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Our shares might trade at premiums that are unsustainable or at discounts from net asset value. Shares of business development companies like us may, during some periods, trade at prices higher than their net asset value per share and, during other periods, as frequently occurs with closed-end investment companies, trade at prices lower than their net asset value per share. The perceived value of our investment portfolio may be affected by a number of factors including perceived prospects for individual companies we invest in, market conditions for common stock investments generally, for initial public offerings and other exit events for venture capital-backed companies, and the mix of companies in our investment portfolio over time. Because accurate financial and other data on our portfolio companies may be limited and not publicly disseminated, the public perception of their value may be unduly influenced by trading levels on secondary marketplaces, speculation about their prospects, market conditions, uninformed investor sentiment or other factors. Negative or unforeseen developments affecting the perceived value of companies in our investment portfolio could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock relative to our net asset value per share. We cannot ever predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. The possibility that our shares will trade at a discount from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable are risks separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decrease. The risk of purchasing shares of a business development company that might trade at a discount or unsustainable premium is more pronounced for investors who wish to sell their shares in a relatively short period of time because, for those investors, realization of a gain or loss on their investments is likely to be more dependent upon changes in premium or discount levels than upon increases or decreases in net asset value per share. 40 Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we conduct additional offerings to sell additional shares of our common stock, the prevailing market price for our common stock could be adversely affected. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time, particularly since we invest primarily in securities that do not produce current income, and any dividends we do pay are expected to vary significantly from year to year. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. The amount and timing of any distributions to our stockholders will fluctuate substantially because the source of our distributions will be solely from net capital gains (which we define as our realized capital gains in excess of realized capital losses during the year, without regard to the long-term or short-term character of such gains or losses), if any, that we realize from the dispositions of our portfolio company investments. Since our equity investments typically do not generate current income (i.e., dividends or interest income), we will not generate net ordinary income from which we could make distributions to our stockholders, which makes us different from other business development companies that primarily make debt investments and may pay dividends from their interest income to stockholders on a more regular basis. As we intend to focus on making primarily capital gains-based investments in equity securities, which will not be income producing, we do not anticipate that we will pay distributions regularly on a quarterly basis or become a predictable issuer of dividends, and we expect that our dividends, if any, will be less consistent than other business development companies that primarily make debt investments. Our ability to pay distributions will be based on our ability to invest our capital in securities of suitable portfolio companies in a timely manner, our portfolio companies achieving a liquidity event, and our ability to dispose of our publicly traded portfolio positions at a gain. There is no assurance that our portfolio companies will complete an IPO or other liquidity event or that we will be able to realize any net capital gains from the sale of our publicly traded portfolio company investments. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future, and any distributions we do pay to stockholders will be paid only from net capital gains, if any, realized from the disposition of our portfolio company investments, after reduction for any incentive fees payable to our investment adviser, our operating expenses, and any other retained amounts. Moreover, to the extent that we make such distributions in the future, the timing and amount of such distributions will be irregular and vary significantly from year to year. In addition, any unrealized depreciation in our investment portfolio could be an indication that we will be unable to recover the cost of our investment when we dispose of it in the future. This could result in realized capital losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our net capital gains available for distribution in future periods. We may retain some or all of our realized net capital gain to pay any incentive fees payable to our investment adviser and to pay our operating expenses, which may result in a deemed distribution to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors currently maintains a distribution policy with the objective of distributing our net capital gains (which we define as our realized capital gains in excess of realized capital losses during the year, without regard to the long-term or short-term character of such gains or losses), if any, after reduction for any incentive fees payable to our investment adviser, our operating expenses, and any other retained amounts. Our distributions will also depend on our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, corporate-level income and excise tax planning, compliance with applicable business development company regulations and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. The amounts we retain from our distributions of realized net capital gains, including incentive fees and our operating expenses, may be designated as a deemed distribution to stockholders. In such case, among other consequences, we will pay corporate-level tax on the retained amount, each U.S. stockholder will be required to include its share of the deemed distribution in income as if it had been actually distributed to the U.S. stockholder, and the U.S. stockholder will be entitled to claim a credit or refund equal to its allocable share of the corporate-level tax we pay on the retained realized net capital gains. The market price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by our management or large shareholders. Sales of our shares of common stock by our officers through 10b5-1 plans or by large shareholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. Additionally, the price of our shares of common stock could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our common stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. Furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of its stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. 41 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 