Risk Factors Risks relating to our retail credit portfolio Future changes in market conditions as well as other factors may lead to increases in delinquency levels of our retail loan portfolio. In recent years, consumer debt has increased rapidly in Korea. Our portfolio of retail loans, in particular, mortgage and home equity loans, has grown from W82,257 billion as of December 31, 2005 to W97,516 billion as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, our retail loans represented 48.8% of our total lending. Within our retail loan portfolio, the outstanding balance of other consumer loans, which unlike mortgage or home equity loans is often unsecured and therefore tends to carry a higher credit risk, has increased from W23,114 billion as of December 31, 2005 to W27,592 billion as of December 31, 2008; as a percentage of total outstanding retail loans, such balance has also increased slightly from 28.1% as of December 31, 2005 to 28.3% as of December 31, 2008. The growth of our retail lending business, which generally offers higher margins than other lending activities, contributed significantly to our interest income and profitability in recent years. Although the size of our retail portfolio decreased in 2005 due to increased delinquencies in 2004, heightened competition and government regulation in the retail loan lending segment, in 2006, 2007 and 2008, our retail portfolio increased primarily as a result of increases in mortgage and home equity loans. The growth of our retail loan portfolio in recent years, together with adverse economic conditions in Korea and globally, may lead to increases in delinquency levels and a deterioration in asset quality. While our non-performing retail loans (defined as those that are over 90 days past due) decreased from W1,371 billion as of December 31, 2005 to W301 billion as of December 31, 2008 due to the relative stabilization of delinquency levels during such period, our non-performing retail loans may increase in 2009. Higher delinquencies in our retail loan portfolio will require us to increase our loan loss provisions and charge-offs, which in turn will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our large exposure to consumer debt means that we are exposed to changes in economic conditions affecting Korean consumers. Accordingly, a rise in unemployment, an increase in interest rates, continuing deterioration of the real estate market or continued difficulties in the Korean economy may have an adverse effect on Korean consumers, which could result in reduced growth and further deterioration in the credit quality of our retail loan portfolio. See “Risks relating to Korea — Unfavorable financial and economic developments in Korea may have an adverse effect on us.” In order to minimize our risk as a result of such exposure, we are continuing to strengthen our risk management processes, including further improving the retail lending process, upgrading our retail credit rating system, as well as strengthening the overall management of our portfolio. Despite our efforts, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to prevent significant credit quality deterioration in our retail loan portfolio. In light of continuing adverse conditions in the Korean economy affecting consumers, in March 2009, the Financial Services Commission requested Korean banks, including us, to establish a “pre-workout program,” including a credit counseling and recovery service, for retail borrowers with short-term outstanding debt. The pre-workout program is expected to be in operation from April 13, 2009 to April 12, 2010. Under the pre-workout program, maturity extensions and/or interest reductions are provided for retail borrowers with total loans of less than W500 million who are in arrears on their payments for more than 30 days but less than 90 days. Our participation in such pre-workout program and other government-led initiatives to provide financial support to retail borrowers may lead us to extend credit to such borrowers that we would not otherwise extend, or offer terms for such credit that we would not otherwise offer, in the absence of such initiatives, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our credit card operations may generate losses in the future, which could hurt our financial condition and results of operations. In September 2003, we merged Kookmin Credit Card, our credit card subsidiary, into us in response to its liquidity problems stemming from the deteriorating asset quality of its credit card portfolio. While our strengthened risk management efforts following the merger resulted in a decrease in our delinquency ratio (which represents the ratio of amounts that are overdue by one day or more to total outstanding balances) with respect to our credit card portfolio from 8.42% as of December 31, 2004 to 3.60% as of December 31, 2007, our delinquency ratio with respect to our credit card portfolio increased to 3.90% as of December 31, 2008 and may further increase in 2009 as a result of, among other things, adverse economic conditions in Korea and the inability of Korean consumers to manage increased household debt. In addition, in line with industry practice, we have restructured a portion of delinquent credit card account balances (defined as balances overdue for one day or more) as loans and also replaced a portion of our delinquent credit card account balances with cash advances that are rolled over from month to month. We have discontinued the practice of providing substituted cash advances from January 2004. As of December 31, 2008, these restructured loans outstanding amounted to W35 billion. Because these loans are not treated as being delinquent at the time of conversion or for a period of time thereafter, our delinquency ratios may not fully reflect all delinquent amounts relating to our outstanding loans. Including all restructured loans, outstanding balances overdue by one day or more accounted for 4.1% of our credit card receivables (including credit card loans) as of December 31, 2008. Despite our efforts to sustain and improve our credit card asset quality and performance, we may experience increased delinquencies or deterioration of the asset quality of our credit card portfolio, which would require us to increase our loan loss provisions and charge-offs and adversely affect our overall financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our small- and medium-sized enterprise loan portfolio We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and any financial difficulties experienced by these customers may result in a deterioration of our asset quality and have an adverse impact on us. One of our core businesses is lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises (as defined under “Item 4B. Business Overview — Corporate Banking — Small- and Medium-sized Enterprise Banking”). We estimate, based on our internal classifications made for Korean GAAP purposes, that our loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises increased from W36,344 billion as of December 31, 2005 to W65,394 billion as of December 31, 2008. During that period, we estimate that non-performing loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises decreased from W1,724 billion to W708 billion and the non-performing loan ratio for such loans decreased from 4.7% as of December 31, 2005 to 1.1% as of December 31, 2008. According to data compiled by the Financial Supervisory Service, the delinquency ratio for Won-currency loans by Korean commercial banks to small- and medium-sized enterprises was 1.8% as of December 31, 2008. Until December 31, 2006, the delinquency ratio for loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises was calculated as the ratio of (1) the outstanding balance of such loans in respect of which either principal payments are overdue by one day or more or interest payments are overdue by 14 days or more (unless prior interest payments on a loan were made late on more than three occasions, in which case the loan is considered delinquent if interest payments are overdue by one day or more) to (2) the aggregate outstanding balance of such loans. From January 1, 2007, the delinquency ratio for loans to small- and medium-sized enterprise is calculated as the ratio of (1) the outstanding balance of such loans in respect of which either principal or interest payments are overdue by one month or more to (2) the aggregate outstanding balance of such loans. Our delinquency ratio for such Won currency loans on a Korean GAAP basis decreased from 2.1% as of December 31, 2005, calculated using the old method of calculation, to 0.6% as of December 31, 2007, calculated using the new method of calculation, but increased to 0.8% as of December 31, 2008 and may further increase in 2009. In recent years, we have taken measures which sought to stem rising delinquencies in our loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through strengthening the review of loan applications and closer monitoring of the post-loan performance of small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers in industry sectors that are relatively more sensitive to downturns in the economy and have shown higher delinquency ratios, such as construction, hotels, restaurants 13 Table of Contents and real estate. Despite such efforts, however, there is no assurance that delinquency levels for our loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises will not rise in the future. In particular, financial difficulties experienced by small- and medium-sized enterprises as a result of, among other things, continuing adverse economic conditions in Korea and globally, have led and may continue to lead to a deterioration in the asset quality of our loans to this segment. Any such deterioration would result in increased charge-offs and higher provisioning and reduced interest and fee income from this segment, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many small- and medium-sized enterprises have close business relationships with the largest Korean commercial conglomerates, known as “chaebols,” primarily as suppliers. Any difficulties encountered by those chaebols would likely hurt the liquidity and financial condition of related small- and medium-sized enterprises, including those to which we have exposure, also resulting in an impairment of their ability to repay loans. A substantial part of our small- and medium-sized enterprise lending comprises loans to “small office/home office” customers, or SOHOs. SOHOs, which we currently define to include sole proprietorships and individual business interests, are usually dependent on a limited number of suppliers or customers. SOHOs tend to be affected to a greater extent than larger corporate borrowers by fluctuations in the Korean economy. In addition, SOHOs often maintain less sophisticated financial records than other corporate borrowers. Although we continue to make efforts to improve our internally developed credit rating systems to rate potential borrowers, particularly with respect to SOHOs, and intend to manage our exposure to these borrowers closely in order to prevent any deterioration in the asset quality of our loans to this segment, we may not be able to do so as intended. In light of the deteriorating financial condition and liquidity position of small- and medium-sized enterprises in Korea as a result of the global financial crisis commencing in the second half of 2008, the Korean government has introduced policies and initiatives intended to encourage Korean banks to provide financial support to small- and medium-sized enterprises. For example, in November 2008, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Financial Supervisory Service under which we are required to improve the liquidity position of small- and medium-sized enterprises and exporters by providing them with adequate financing and to endeavor to alleviate burdens on low-income debtors by extending maturity dates or by delaying interest payments on loans owed to us. In addition, in October 2008, the Financial Supervisory Service requested Korean banks, including us, to establish a “fast track” program to provide liquidity assistance to small-and medium-sized enterprises on an expedited basis. Under the fast track program we established, which is effective through June 30, 2009, we provide liquidity assistance to small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers applying for such assistance, in the form of new short-term loans or maturity extensions or interest rate adjustments with respect to existing loans, after expedited credit review and approval by us. Our participation in these and other government-led initiatives to provide financial support to small- and medium-sized enterprises may lead us to extend credit to small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers that we would not otherwise extend, or offer terms for such credit that we would not otherwise offer, in the absence of such initiatives. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the financial condition and liquidity position of our small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers benefiting from such initiatives will improve sufficiently for them to service their debt on a timely basis, or at all. Accordingly, increases in our exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers resulting from such government-led initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have exposure to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies, and financial difficulties of these companies may have an adverse impact on us. As of December 31, 2008, we had loans outstanding to construction companies and shipbuilding companies (many of which are small-and medium-sized enterprises) in the amount of W10,052 billion and W1,047 billion, or 5.0% and 0.5% of our total loans, respectively. We also have other exposures to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies, including in the form of guarantees extended for the benefit of such companies and debt and equity securities of such companies held by us. In the case of construction companies, such exposures include guarantees provided to us by general contractors with respect to financing extended by us for residential and commercial real estate development projects. In the case of shipbuilding companies, such exposures include refund 14 Table of Contents guarantees extended by us on behalf of shipbuilding companies to cover their obligation to return a portion of the ship order contract amount to customers in the event of performance delays or defaults under shipbuilding contracts. The construction industry in Korea is experiencing a downturn, due to excessive investment in recent years in residential property development projects, stagnation of real property prices and reduced demand for residential property, especially in areas outside of Seoul, including as a result of deteriorating conditions in the Korean economy. In October 2008, the Korean government implemented a W9 trillion support package for the benefit of the Korean construction industry, including a program to buy unsold housing units and land from construction companies. The shipbuilding industry in Korea is also experiencing a severe downturn due to a significant decrease in ship orders in recent months, primarily due to adverse conditions in the global economy and the resulting slowdown in global trade. In response to the deteriorating financial condition and liquidity position of borrowers in the construction, shipbuilding and other industries disproportionately impacted by adverse economic developments in Korea and globally, the Korean government in December 2008 announced a program to promote expedited restructuring of such borrowers by their Korean creditor financial institutions, under the supervision of major commercial banks. In accordance with such program, 29 construction companies and seven shipbuilding companies became subject to workout in February and March 2009, following review by their creditor financial institutions (including us) and the Korean government. Other borrowers may become subject to workout under the program in the future, based on ongoing review by their creditor financial institutions and the Korean government. However, there is no assurance that these measures will be successful in stabilizing the Korean construction and shipbuilding industries. The allowances that we have established against our credit exposures to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies may not be sufficient to cover all future losses arising from these and other exposures. If the credit quality of our exposures to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies declines further, we may be required to take substantial additional provisions (including in connection with restructurings of such companies), which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, although a portion of our credit exposures to construction and shipbuilding companies are secured by collateral, such collateral may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts in respect of such credit exposures. See “— Other risks relating to our business — A decline in the value of the collateral securing our loans and our inability to realize full collateral value may adversely affect our credit portfolio.” Risks relating to our financial holding company structure and strategy We have a limited operating history as a financial holding company, and we may not succeed in implementing our strategy to take advantage of, or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of, our financial holding company structure. We were established as a new financial holding company in September 2008 pursuant to a “comprehensive stock transfer” under Korean law, following the completion of which Kookmin Bank, KB Investment & Securities Co., Ltd., KB Asset Management Co., Ltd., KB Real Estate Trust Co., Ltd., KB Investment Co., Ltd., KB Futures Co., Ltd., KB Credit Information Co., Ltd., and KB Data Systems Co., Ltd. became our wholly-owned subsidiaries. See “Item 4A. History and Development of the Company — The Establishment of KB Financial Group.” One of our principal strategies is to take advantage of our financial holding company structure to become a comprehensive financial services provider capable of offering a full range of products and services to our large existing base of retail and corporate banking customers. The continued implementation of these plans may require additional investments of capital, infrastructure, human resources and management attention. This strategy entails certain risks, including the possibility that we may face significant competition from other financial holding companies and more specialized financial institutions in particular segments. If our strategy does not succeed, we may incur losses on our investments and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Furthermore, our success under a financial holding company structure depends on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from coordinating the businesses of our various subsidiaries. Although we are integrating certain aspects of our subsidiaries’ operations into our financial holding company structure, our subsidiaries will generally continue to operate as independent entities with separate management and staff. As a result, our ability to direct our subsidiaries’ day-to-day operations may be limited. In 15 Table of Contents addition, the integration of our subsidiaries’ separate businesses and operations, as well as those of any companies we may acquire in the future, into the financial holding company structure could require a significant amount of time, financial resources and management attention. Moreover, that process could disrupt our operations (including our risk management operations) or information technology systems, reduce employee morale, produce unintended inconsistencies in our standards, controls, procedures or policies, and affect our relationships with customers and our ability to retain key personnel. The realization of the anticipated benefits of our financial holding company structure may be blocked, delayed or reduced as a result of many factors, some of which may be outside our control. These factors include: • difficulties in integrating the diverse activities and operations of our subsidiaries or any companies we may acquire, including risk management operations and information technology systems, personnel, policies and procedures; • difficulties in reorganizing or reducing overlapping personnel, branches, networks and administrative functions; • restrictions under the Financial Holding Company Act and other regulations on transactions between a financial holding company and, or among, its subsidiaries; • unforeseen contingent risks, including lack of required capital resources, increased tax liabilities or restrictions in our overseas operations, relating to our financial holding company structure; • unexpected business disruptions; • failure to attract, develop and retain personnel with necessary expertise; • loss of customers; and • labor unrest. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our financial holding company structure, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer as a result. We depend on limited forms of funding to fund our operations at the holding company level. We are a financial holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of our subsidiaries. Our primary sources of funding and liquidity are dividends from our subsidiaries, direct borrowings and issuances of equity or debt securities at the holding company level. In addition, as a financial holding company, we are required to meet certain minimum financial ratios under Korean law, including with respect to liquidity, leverage and capital adequacy. Our ability to meet our obligations to our direct creditors and employees and our other liquidity needs and regulatory requirements at the holding company level depends on timely and adequate distributions from our subsidiaries and our ability to sell our securities or obtain credit from our lenders. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us depends on their financial condition and operating results. In the future, our subsidiaries may enter into agreements, such as credit agreements with lenders or indentures relating to high-yield or subordinated debt instruments, that impose restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, and the terms of future obligations and the operation of Korean law could prevent our subsidiaries from making sufficient distributions to us to allow us to make payments on our outstanding obligations. See “— As a financial holding company, we depend on receiving dividends from our subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock.” Any delay in receipt of or shortfall in payments to us from our subsidiaries could result in our inability to meet our liquidity needs and regulatory requirements, including minimum liquidity, double leverage and capital adequacy ratios, and may disrupt our operations at the holding company level. In addition, creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have claims that are prior to any claims of our creditors with respect to their assets. Furthermore, our inability to sell our securities or obtain funds from our lenders on favorable terms, or at all, could also result in our inability to meet our liquidity needs and regulatory requirements and may disrupt our operations at the holding company level. 16 Table of Contents As a financial holding company, we depend on receiving dividends from our subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock. Since our principal assets at the holding company level are the shares of our subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock largely depends on dividend payments from those subsidiaries. Those dividend payments are subject to the Korean Commercial Code, the Bank Act and regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and retained earnings, imposed by the various regulatory agencies with authority over those entities. For example: • under the Korean Commercial Code, dividends may only be paid out of distributable income, an amount which is calculated by subtracting the aggregate amount of a company’s paid-in capital and certain mandatory legal reserves from its net assets, in each case as of the end of the prior fiscal period; • under the Bank Act, a bank also must credit at least 10% of its net profit to a legal reserve each time it pays dividends on distributable income until that reserve equals the amount of its total paid-in capital; and • under the Bank Act and the requirements of the Financial Services Commission, if a bank fails to meet its required capital adequacy ratio or otherwise becomes subject to management improvement measures imposed by the Financial Services Commission, then the Financial Services Commission may restrict the declaration and payment of dividends by that bank. Our subsidiaries may not continue to meet the applicable legal and regulatory requirements for the payment of dividends in the future. If they fail to do so, they may stop paying or reduce the amount of the dividends they pay to us, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Although increasing our fee income is an important part of our strategy, we may not be able to do so. We have historically relied on interest income as our primary revenue source. While we have developed new sources of fee income as part of our business strategy, our ability to increase our fee income and thereby reduce our dependence on interest income will be affected by the extent to which our customers generally accept the concept of fee-based services. Historically, customers in Korea have generally been reluctant to pay fees in return for value-added financial services, and their continued reluctance to do so will adversely affect the implementation of this aspect of our strategy. In March 2007, we reduced or waived many of the fees we charge on our banking services, in response to customer demand. Specifically, we reduced or waived our fees on fund transfers through our Internet, mobile and telephone banking services, as well as on transfers and after-hour withdrawals through ATMs. We also reduced our wire transfer fees and eliminated the fees we charge on issuance of bankers’ checks and certain tax-related statements. These measures may continue to limit the growth in our banking-related fee income. We may suffer customer attrition or our net interest margin may decrease as a result of our competition strategy. We have been pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, a strategy of maintaining or enhancing our margins where possible and avoid, to the extent possible, entering into price competition. In order to execute this strategy, we will need to maintain relatively low interest rates on our deposit products while charging relatively higher rates on loans. If other banks and financial institutions adopt a strategy of expanding market share through interest rate competition, we may suffer customer attrition due to rate sensitivity. In addition, we may in the future decide to compete to a greater extent based on interest rates, which could lead to a decrease in our net interest margins. Any future decline in our customer base or our net interest margins as a result of our future competition strategy could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Risks relating to competition Competition in the Korean financial industry is intense, and we may lose market share and experience declining margins as a result. Competition in the Korean financial industry has been and is likely to remain intense. Some of the financial institutions that we compete with have longer operating histories as financial holding companies, greater financial resources or more specialized capabilities than us and our subsidiaries. In the retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise lending business, which has been our traditional core business, competition has increased significantly and is expected to increase further. Most Korean banks have been focusing on retail customers and small- and medium-sized enterprises in recent years, although they have begun to increase their exposure to large corporate borrowers, and they have engaged in aggressive marketing campaigns and made significant investments in the retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise segments. In addition, the profitability of our retail and credit card operations may decline as a result of growing market saturation in the retail lending and credit card segments, increased interest rate competition, pressure to lower the fee rates applicable to our credit cards (particularly merchant fee rates) and higher marketing expenses. Intense and increasing competition has made and continues to make it more difficult for us to secure retail, credit card and small- and medium-sized customers with the credit quality and on credit terms necessary to achieve our business objectives in a commercially acceptable manner. In addition, we believe that regulatory reforms, including the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act enacted in 2007, which became effective in February 2009, and the general modernization of business practices in Korea will lead to increased competition among financial institutions in Korea. We also believe that foreign financial institutions, many of which have greater experience and resources than we do, will seek to compete with us in providing financial products and services either by themselves or in partnership with existing Korean financial institutions. Furthermore, a number of significant mergers and acquisitions in the industry have taken place in Korea over the last few years, including the acquisition of Koram Bank by an affiliate of Citibank in 2004, Standard Chartered Bank’s acquisition of Korea First Bank in 2005 and Chohung Bank’s merger with Shinhan Bank in April 2006. We expect that consolidation in the financial industry will continue. Some of the financial services providers resulting from this consolidation may, by virtue of their increased size and business scope, provide significantly greater competition for us. Increased competition and continuing consolidation may lead to decreased margins, resulting in a material adverse impact on our future profitability. Accordingly our results of operations and financial condition may suffer as a result of increasing competition in the Korean financial industry. Risks relating to our large corporate loan portfolio We have exposure to chaebols, and, as a result, recent and any future financial difficulties of chaebols may have an adverse impact on us. Of our 20 largest corporate exposures (including loans, debt and equity securities, guarantees and acceptances and other exposures) as of December 31, 2008, seven were to companies that were members of the 43 largest chaebols in Korea. As of that date, the total amount of our exposures to the 43 largest chaebols was W21,905 billion, or 8.7% of our total exposures. If the credit quality of our exposures to chaebols declines, we could require substantial additional loan loss provisions, which would hurt our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Assets and Liabilities — Loan Portfolio — Exposure to Chaebols.” We cannot assure you that the allowances we have established against these exposures will be sufficient to cover all future losses arising from these exposures. In addition, with respect to those companies that are in or in the future enter into workout or liquidation proceedings, we may not be able to make any recoveries against such companies. We may, therefore, experience future losses with respect to those loans. 18 Table of Contents We have exposure to companies that are currently or may in the future be put in restructuring, and we may suffer losses as a result of additional loan loss provisions required and/or the adoption of restructuring plans with which we do not agree. As of December 31, 2008, our loans and guarantees to companies that were in workout or court-supervised restructuring amounted to W297 billion or 0.1% of our total loans and guarantees, of which W167 billion or 56.2% was classified as substandard or below and all of which was classified as impaired. As of the same date, our allowances for losses on these loans and guarantees amounted to W151 billion, or 50.8% of these loans and guarantees. These allowances may not be sufficient to cover all future losses arising from our exposure to these companies. Furthermore, we have other exposure to such companies, in the form of debt and equity securities of such companies held by us (including equity securities we acquired as a result of debt-to-equity conversions). Our exposures as of December 31, 2008 with respect to such securities of companies in workout or court-supervised restructuring amounted to W2 billion, or less than 0.1% of our total exposures, but may increase in the future. In addition, in the case of borrowers that are or become subject to workout, we may be forced to restructure our credits pursuant to restructuring plans approved by other creditor financial institutions holding two-thirds or more of the total outstanding debt (as well as 75% or more of the total outstanding secured debt) of the borrower, or to dispose of our credits to other creditors on unfavorable terms. A large portion of our credit exposure is concentrated in a relatively small number of large corporate borrowers, which increases the risk of our corporate credit portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, our loans and guarantees to our 20 largest borrowers totaled W8,142 billion and accounted for 3.7% of our total loans and guarantees. As of that date, our single largest corporate credit exposure was to Hyundai Heavy Industries, to which we had outstanding credit exposures (all of which was in the form of guarantees and acceptances) of W1,950 billion, representing 0.9% of our total loans and guarantees. Any further deterioration in the financial condition of our large corporate borrowers may require us to take substantial additional provisions and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Other risks relating to our business Difficult conditions in the global financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the second and third quarter of 2007, credit markets in the United States started to experience difficult conditions and volatility that in turn have affected worldwide financial markets. In particular, in late July and early August 2007, market uncertainty in the U.S. sub-prime mortgage sector increased dramatically and further expanded to other markets such as those for leveraged finance, collateralized debt obligations and other structured products. In September and October 2008, liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global financial markets increased significantly with the bankruptcy or acquisition of, and government assistance to, several major U.S. and European financial institutions, including the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“Lehman Brothers”), the acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. by the Bank of America Corp., the acquisition of Wachovia Corporation by Wells Fargo & Co., U.S. federal government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the Federal National Mortgage Association and Washington Mutual, Inc. and the U.S. federal government’s loans to American International Group Inc. (“AIG”) in exchange for an equity interest. We did not have material exposures to Lehman Brothers, Washington Mutual Inc. or AIG as of December 31, 2008. These developments have resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in the United States and global financial markets. In response to such developments, legislators and financial regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions, including Korea, have implemented a number of policy measures designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions. In particular, the Korean government has implemented or announced, among other things, the following measures: • In October 2008, the Korean government implemented a guarantee program to guarantee foreign currency-denominated debt incurred by Korean banks and their overseas branches between October 20, 2008 and 19 Table of Contents June 30, 2009, which was subsequently extended to December 31, 2009, up to an aggregate amount of US$100 billion, for a period of five years from the date such debt was incurred. • In October 2008, the Bank of Korea established a temporary reciprocal currency swap arrangement with the Federal Reserve Board of the United States for up to US$30 billion, originally effective until April 30, 2009 and subsequently extended to October 30, 2009. The Bank of Korea has been providing U.S. dollar liquidity, through competitive auction facilities, to financial institutions established in Korea, including us, using funds from the swap line. Between October 23, 2008 and April 30, 2009, we received an aggregate of US$1.9 billion from the swap line. • In November 2008, the Korean government announced that it would seek to provide economic stimulus by expanding government expenditure and reducing tax, as well as loosening restrictions on real estate development and transactions. • In December 2008, the Korean government established a W10 trillion bond market stabilization fund to purchase financial and corporate bonds and debentures in order to provide liquidity to companies and financial institutions. We contributed W1 trillion to the fund. • In December 2008, the Bank of Korea agreed with the People’s Bank of China to establish a bilateral currency swap arrangement for up to W38 trillion, effective for three years, and agreed with the Bank of Japan to increase the maximum amount of their bilateral swap arrangement from US$3 billion to US$20 billion, originally effective until April 30, 2009, and subsequently extended to October 30, 2009. • In December 2008, the Korean government announced that it would purchase non-performing loans held by savings banks, through the Korea Asset Management Corporation. • In December 2008, the Bank of Korea decided to make a one-time interest payment of W500 billion in the aggregate to Korean banks with respect to their required reserve deposits with the Bank of Korea, which typically does not pay interest, in order to provide increased liquidity to such banks. We received W92 billion of such interest from the Bank of Korea. • In March 2009, the Korean government established a W20 trillion bank recapitalization fund to provide additional capital to Korean banks by purchasing their preferred shares, Tier I securities and/or subordinated debt. Of the W20 trillion to be made available by the fund, W12 trillion will initially be made available to 14 Korean banks. In February 2009, as one of the 14 Korean banks, Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, applied and was approved by the Korean government to receive up to W2 trillion from the bank recapitalization fund. On March 31, 2009, we received W1 trillion of capital from the fund, in the form of purchases by the fund of Kookmin Bank’s hybrid Tier I securities. • In March 2009, the Korean government announced its plans to provide support to financial institutions and companies in the project finance industry by purchasing, through the Korea Asset Management Corporation, up to W4.7 trillion of project finance loans designated by the Financial Supervisory Service as “endangered.” • From the fourth quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2009, the Bank of Korea decreased the policy rate by a total of 3.25% in order to address financial market instability and to help combat the slowdown of the domestic economy. However, the overall impact of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the Korean financial markets remains uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilizing effects. More generally, we are also exposed to adverse changes and volatility in global and Korean financial markets as a result of our liabilities and assets denominated in foreign currencies and our holdings of trading and investment securities, including structured products such as collateralized debt obligations. As liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global financial markets increased significantly in the second half of 2008 and into 2009, the value of the Won relative to the U.S. dollar has depreciated at an accelerated rate. See “Exchange Rates.” Such depreciation of the Won has increased our cost in Won of servicing our foreign currency-denominated debt, while continued exchange rate volatility may also result in foreign exchange losses for us. Furthermore, as a result of 20 Table of Contents adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been a significant overall decline and continuing volatility in securities prices, including the stock prices of Korean and foreign companies in which we hold an interest, which have resulted in and may lead to further trading and valuation losses on our trading and investment securities portfolio as well as impairment losses on our investments accounted for under the equity method, including our minority equity stake in JSC Bank CenterCredit, a Kazakhstan bank, which we acquired in 2008. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Capital Markets Activities and International Banking — International Banking.” In addition, recent increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit resulting from heightened concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically that have led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease funding to borrowers, have adversely affected our ability to borrow, particularly with respect to foreign currency funding, which may negatively impact our liquidity and performance. In the event that the current difficult conditions in the global credit markets continue, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our lending and other activities. This could cause us to curtail our business activities and could increase our cost of funding, both of which may reduce our profitability. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by legal claims and regulatory actions against us. We are subject to the risk of legal claims and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business, which may expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal costs, injunctive relief, criminal and civil penalties and regulatory restrictions on our operations, as well as significant reputational harm. Recently, due to the difficult conditions and volatility in the worldwide financial markets, particularly the significant depreciation of the Won against the U.S. dollar and declines in securities prices, certain of our customers have brought lawsuits against Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, in connection with its sales of foreign currency derivatives products known as “KIKO” (which stands for “knock-in knock-out”) and certain investment fund products. See “Item 8A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” The outcome of these and other legal claims and regulatory actions, which we cannot predict with any degree of certainty, may materially and adversely impact our business if such claims and actions are determined against us. Our risk management system may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a group-wide risk management platform, encompassing a multi-layered risk management governance structure, reporting and monitoring systems, early warning systems, a centralized credit risk management system for our banking operations and other risk management infrastructure, using a variety of risk management strategies and techniques. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” However, such risk management strategies and techniques employed by us and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate the economic and financial outcome in all market environments, and many of our risk management strategies and techniques have a basis in historic market behavior that may limit the effectiveness of such strategies and techniques in times of significant market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, our risk management strategies may not be effective in a difficult or less liquid market environment, as other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies as us to deal with such market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult for us to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of such other market participants. We are generally subject to Korean corporate governance and disclosure standards, which may differ from those in other countries. Companies in Korea, including us, are subject to corporate governance standards applicable to Korean public companies which may differ in some respects from standards applicable in other countries, including the United States. As a reporting company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to certain corporate governance standards as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, foreign private issuers, including us, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. There may also be less publicly available information about Korean companies, such as us, than is regularly made available by public or non-public companies in other countries. Such differences in corporate governance standards 21 Table of Contents and less public information could result in corporate governance practices or disclosures that are perceived as less than satisfactory by investors in certain countries. A decline in the value of the collateral securing our loans and our inability to realize full collateral value may adversely affect our credit portfolio. A substantial portion of our loans is secured by real estate, the values of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Although it is our general policy to lend up to 40% to 60% of the appraised value of collateral (except in areas of high speculation designated by the government where we generally limit our lending to between 40% to 50% of the appraised value of collateral) and to periodically re-appraise our collateral, the downturn in the real estate market in Korea in recent months has resulted in declines in the value of the collateral securing our mortgage and home equity loans. If collateral values decline further in the future, they may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts in respect of our secured loans. Any further declines in the value of the real estate or other collateral securing our loans, or our inability to obtain additional collateral in the event of such declines, could result in a deterioration in our asset quality and may require us to take additional loan loss provisions. In Korea, foreclosure on collateral generally requires a written petition to a court. An application, when made, may be subject to delays and administrative requirements that may result in a decrease in the value realized with respect to such collateral. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to realize the full value on our collateral as a result of, among other factors, delays in foreclosure proceedings and defects in the perfection of our security interest in collateral. Our failure to recover the expected value of collateral could expose us to losses. Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, has in the past breached covenants in some of its financing documents. A number of the loan agreements of Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, contain covenants that limit its ability to pledge its assets to secure indebtedness, to dispose, sell or transfer assets or to enter into arrangements having a similar effect. We recently become aware that as a result of its financing activities undertaken in the ordinary course of its business, Kookmin Bank had breached a number of these covenants. These financing activities are as follows: • Kookmin Bank borrows funds made available to it by the Bank of Korea (most recently in connection with the Korean government’s initiative to encourage Korean banks to provide financial support to small- and medium-size enterprises) on a secured basis. See “— Risks relating to our small- and medium-sized enterprise loan portfolio — We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and any financial difficulties experienced by these customers may result in a deterioration of our asset quality and have an adverse impact on us.” • Kookmin Bank obtains financing through sale and repurchase arrangements involving the transfer of assets. • Kookmin Bank enters into swap transactions under which from time to time it may post or transfer title to collateral. • Kookmin Bank securitizes its assets from time to time for funding purposes. The assets pledged or transferred through the above financing activities comprise mainly Korean government bonds and other types of securities and mortgage loans. In each case, these financing activities were in breach of one or more of the covenants set forth in, and triggered defaults under, the relevant loan agreements. These defaults resulted in consequential breaches of representations and covenants, defaults, cross-defaults and termination events in other financing documents (including loan agreements other than the aforementioned loan agreements), swap transactions, Kookmin Bank’s bond programs and securitizations. During March and April 2009, Kookmin Bank sought and obtained waivers of the foregoing covenant breaches and default provisions from the lenders and agents under certain of the relevant loan agreements. Kookmin Bank also sought and entered into amendments to certain of the relevant loan agreements to ensure that it has the ability to enter into ordinary course financing activities, of the type described above, in the future. With respect to the relevant 22 Table of Contents loan agreements for which Kookmin Bank did not obtain such amendments and waivers, Kookmin Bank has repaid the related borrowings. In addition, a number of Kookmin Bank’s loan agreements contain representations, covenants or events of default that were breached or triggered as a result of the comprehensive stock transfer pursuant to which we were established in 2008, including as a result of the delisting of Kookmin Bank’s common shares from the Stock Market Division of the Korea Exchange, the delisting of the Kookmin Bank American depositary shares from the New York Stock Exchange and the adoption of a financial holding company structure pursuant to which Kookmin Bank’s former subsidiaries became our subsidiaries. During April 2009, Kookmin Bank sought and obtained certain waivers and amendments from relevant parties affected by technical defaults stemming from the comprehensive stock transfer. However, we cannot assure you that Kookmin Bank’s counterparties or creditors under its other financing documents and instruments, including derivatives and swap transactions, sale and repurchase arrangements, bond issuances under Kookmin Bank’s bond programs and securitizations, will not seek to assert their contractual or other remedies for breach of representations, cross-default, cross-acceleration, termination events or failure to comply with the covenants or other terms under such other financing documents and instruments as a consequence of the defaults under the above-described loan agreements, which in turn may trigger other cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. Any such developments may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The secondary market for corporate bonds in Korea is not fully developed, and, as a result, we may not be able to realize the full “marked-to-market” value of debt securities we hold at the time of any sale of such securities. As of December 31, 2008, we held debt securities issued by Korean companies and financial institutions (other than those issued by government-owned or -controlled enterprises or financial institutions, which include the Korea Electric Power Corporation, the Bank of Korea, the Korea Development Bank and the Industrial Bank of Korea) with a total book value of W8,034 billion in our trading and investment securities portfolio. The market value of these securities could decline significantly due to various factors, including future increases in interest rates or a deterioration in the financial and economic condition of any particular issuer or of Korea in general. Any of these factors individually or a combination of these factors would require us to write down the fair value of these debt securities, resulting in impairment losses. Because the secondary market for corporate bonds in Korea is not fully developed, the market value of many of these securities as reflected on our balance sheet is determined by references to suggested prices posted by Korean rating agencies or the Korea Securities Dealers Association. These valuations, however, may differ significantly from the actual value that we could realize in the event we elect to sell these securities. As a result, we may not be able to realize the full “marked-to-market” value at the time of any such sale of these securities and thus may incur losses. We have been assessed additional income taxes in respect of prior years as a result of a tax audit by the National Tax Service of Korea, and our appeal with respect to a portion of such assessment may not be successful. During the first half of 2007, the National Tax Service of Korea completed a tax audit in respect of us for the fiscal years 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, as a result of which we were assessed W190 billion (including residence tax) for tax deficiencies. In addition, during the second half of 2007, the National Tax Service of Korea assessed additional income taxes for prior years amounting to W292 billion (including residence tax) for tax deficiencies. We paid the entire amount of such additional assessments in 2007. We have filed an appeal with the National Tax Tribunal with respect to tax assessments made in 2007 amounting to W482 billion (including residence tax) and recorded W481 billion of such income taxes paid as “Other Assets” in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007 (upon adoption of FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes”), which remained so recorded as of December 31, 2008. See “Item 5A. Operating Results — Critical Accounting Policies — Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets and Uncertain Tax Positions.” However, there is no guarantee that such appeal will be successful or that we will not be assessed additional income taxes in respect of prior years as a result of further tax audits by the National Tax Service of Korea. 23 Table of Contents We may be required to make transfers from our general banking operations to cover shortfalls in our guaranteed trust accounts, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We manage a number of money trust accounts through Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary. Under Korean law, trust account assets of a bank are required to be segregated from the assets of that bank’s general banking operations. Those assets are not available to satisfy the claims of a bank’s depositors or other creditors of its general banking operations. For some of the trust accounts we manage, we have guaranteed the principal amount of the investor’s investment. Since January 2004, banks have been prohibited from providing new trust accounts that guarantee the principal amount of investments, other than certain retirement trust and annuity trust products. However, we will continue to provide guarantees with respect to existing accounts, which contain the aforementioned guarantee provisions. If, at any time, the income from our guaranteed trust accounts is not sufficient to pay any guaranteed amount, we will have to cover the shortfall first from the special reserves maintained in these trust accounts, then from our fees from such trust accounts and finally from funds transferred from our general banking operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had W69 billion as special reserves in trust account assets for which we provided guarantees of principal. There was no transfer from general banking operations to cover deficiencies in guaranteed trust accounts in 2006, 2007 and 2008. However, we may be required to make transfers from our general banking operations to cover shortfalls, if any, in our guaranteed trust accounts in the future. Such transfers may adversely impact our results of operations. Our Internet banking services are subject to security concerns relating to the commercial use of the Internet. We provide Internet banking services to our retail and corporate customers, which require sensitive customer information, including passwords and account information, to be transferred over a secure connection on the Internet. However, connections on the Internet, although secure, are not free from security breaches. We may experience security breaches or unexpected disruptions in connection with our Internet banking service in the future, which may result in liability to our customers and third parties and have an adverse effect on our business or reputation. We may experience disruptions, delays and other difficulties from our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems for our daily operations including customer service, transactions, billing and record keeping. We may experience disruptions, delays or other difficulties from our information technology systems, which may have an adverse effect on our business and adversely impact our customers’ confidence in us. We do not prepare interim financial information on a U.S. GAAP basis. Neither we nor our subsidiaries are required to, and we and our subsidiaries do not, prepare interim financial information on a U.S. GAAP basis. U.S. GAAP differs in significant respects from Korean GAAP, particularly with respect to the establishment of provisions and loan loss allowance. See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Selected Financial Information under Korean GAAP” and “— Reconciliation with Korean GAAP.” As a result, our provision and allowance levels reflected under Korean GAAP in our results as of the end of and for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 may differ significantly from comparable figures under U.S. GAAP for these and future periods. In addition, in March 2007, the Financial Services Commission and the Korea Accounting Institute announced a road map for the adoption of the Korean equivalent of International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, pursuant to which all listed companies in Korea will be required to prepare their annual financial statements under IFRS beginning in 2011. Because the Korean equivalent of IFRS to be adopted has not been finalized and there is not yet a significant body of established practice on which to draw in forming judgments regarding its implementation and application, it is not possible to estimate with any degree of certainty the impact that such adoption will have on our financial reporting. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of IFRS in Korea beginning in 2011 will not adversely affect our reported results of operations or financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Risks relating to liquidity and capital management A considerable increase in interest rates could decrease the value of our debt securities portfolio and raise our funding costs while reducing loan demand and the repayment ability of our borrowers, which, as a result, could adversely affect us. Commencing in the second half of 2008, interest rates in Korea have declined to historically low levels as the government has sought to stimulate the economy through active rate-lowering measures. The vast majority of debt securities we hold pay interest at a fixed rate. However, a considerable increase in interest rates in the future could lead to a decline in the value of the debt securities in our portfolio. A sustained increase in interest rates will also raise our funding costs, while reducing loan demand, especially among consumers. A considerable rise in interest rates may therefore require us to rebalance our assets and liabilities in order to minimize the risk of potential mismatches and maintain our profitability. In addition, rising interest rate levels may adversely affect the Korean economy and the financial condition of our corporate and retail borrowers, including holders of our credit cards, which in turn may lead to a deterioration in our credit portfolio. Since most of our retail and corporate loans bear interest at rates that adjust periodically based on prevailing market rates, a sustained increase in interest rate levels will increase the interest costs of our retail and corporate borrowers and could adversely affect their ability to make payments on their outstanding loans. Our funding is highly dependent on short-term deposits, which dependence may adversely affect our operations. We meet a significant amount of our funding requirements through short-term funding sources, which consist primarily of customer deposits. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 94.6% of our deposits had maturities of one year or less or were payable on demand. In the past, a substantial proportion of our customer deposits have been rolled over upon maturity. We cannot guarantee, however, that depositors will continue to roll over their deposits in the future. In the event that a substantial number of our short-term deposit customers withdraw their funds or fail to roll over their deposits as higher-yielding investment opportunities emerge, our liquidity position could be adversely affected. We may also be required to seek more expensive sources of short-term and long-term funding to finance our operations. See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial Condition — Liquidity.” We may be required to raise additional capital to maintain our capital adequacy ratios, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Under the capital adequacy requirements of the Financial Services Commission, we, as a bank holding company, are required to maintain a minimum consolidated capital adequacy ratio, which is the ratio of equity capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets on a consolidated Korean GAAP basis, of 8.0%. In addition, pursuant to the capital adequacy requirements of the Financial Services Commission, Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, is required to maintain a minimum Tier I capital adequacy ratio of 4.0% and a combined Tier I and Tier II capital adequacy ratio of 8.0%, on a consolidated Korean GAAP basis. Tier II capital is included in calculating the combined Tier I and Tier II capital adequacy ratio up to 100% of Tier I capital. As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated capital adequacy ratio was 11.73%, and Kookmin Bank’s Tier I capital adequacy and its combined Tier I and Tier II capital adequacy ratio was 9.92% and 13.18%, respectively, all of which exceeded the minimum levels required by the Financial Services Commission. However, our capital base and capital adequacy ratios may deteriorate in the future if our results of operations or financial condition deteriorates for any reason, including as a result of a deterioration in the asset quality of our retail loans (including credit card balances) and loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises, or if we are not able to deploy our funding into suitably low-risk assets. 25 Table of Contents If our capital adequacy ratios deteriorate, we may be required to obtain additional capital in order to remain in compliance with the applicable capital adequacy requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain additional capital at any time may be constrained to the extent that banks or other financial institutions in Korea or from other Asian countries are seeking to raise capital at the same time. To the extent that we fail to maintain our capital adequacy ratios in the future, Korean regulatory authorities may impose penalties on us ranging from a warning to suspension or revocation of our banking license. For a description of the capital adequacy requirements of the Financial Services Commission, see “Item 4B. Business Overview — Supervision and Regulation — Principal Regulations Applicable to Financial Holding Companies — Capital Adequacy” and “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial Condition — Capital Adequacy.” We may face increased capital requirements under the new Basel Capital Accord. Beginning on January 1, 2008, the Financial Supervisory Service implemented the new Basel Capital Accord, referred to as Basel II, in Korea, which has substantially affected the way risk is measured among Korean financial institutions, including Kookmin Bank. Building upon the initial Basel Capital Accord of 1988, which focused primarily on credit risk and market risk and on capital adequacy and asset soundness as measures of risk, Basel II expands this approach to contemplate additional areas of risk such as operational risk. In addition, under Basel II, banks are permitted to follow either a standardized approach or an internal ratings-based approach with respect to calculating credit risk capital requirements. Kookmin Bank has voluntarily chosen to establish and follow an internal ratings-based approach, which is more risk-sensitive in assessing its credit risk capital requirements. In December 2007, the Financial Supervisory Service approved Kookmin Bank’s internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, and Kookmin Bank became the first Korean bank permitted to use such internal ratings-based approach. For regulatory reporting purposes, Kookmin Bank has implemented its internal ratings-based approach for credit risk with respect to retail and small and medium-sized enterprise loans and asset-backed securities from January 2008, large corporate loans from June 2008 and retail SOHO loans from December 2008. Kookmin Bank plans to further implement its internal ratings-based approach to other classes of credit risk exposure on a phased rollout basis between 2009 and 2010 based on consultations with the Financial Supervisory Service and to implement its “Advanced Internal Ratings-based Approach” for credit risk for regulatory reporting purposes in the near future. A standardized approach will be used in measuring credit risk for those classes of exposure for which Kookmin Bank’s internal ratings-based approach has not yet been implemented, as well as for certain classes of exposure (including those to the government, public institutions and other banks) for which the internal ratings-based approach will not be applied. With respect to operational risk, Kookmin Bank implemented a standardized approach beginning in January 2008 and further implemented an “Advanced Measurement Approach” for regulatory reporting purposes beginning in January 2009. While the implementation of Kookmin Bank’s internal ratings-based approach in 2008 has increased its capital adequacy ratio and led to a decrease in its credit risk-related capital requirements as compared to those under its previous approach under the initial Basel Capital Accord of 1988, there can be no assurance that such internal ratings-based approach under Basel II will not require an increase in Kookmin Bank’s credit risk capital requirements in the future, which may require Kookmin Bank to either improve its asset quality or raise additional capital. See “Item 5A. Operating Results — Overview — New Basel Capital Accord” and “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial Condition — Capital Adequacy.” Risks relating to government regulation and policy New loan loss provisioning guidelines implemented by the Financial Services Commission may require us to increase our provisioning levels under Korean GAAP, which could adversely affect us. In recent years, the Financial Services Commission (formerly the Financial Supervisory Commission) has implemented changes to the loan loss provisioning requirements applicable to Korean banks under Korean GAAP, which have resulted in increases to our provisions and have adversely impacted our reported results of operations and financial condition under Korean GAAP. Until 2004, the requirement to establish allowances for possible losses in respect of confirmed acceptances and guarantees applied only to those classified as substandard or below. 26 Table of Contents Commencing in the second half of 2005, the requirement was extended to cover confirmed acceptances and guarantees classified as normal or precautionary, as well as unconfirmed acceptances and guarantees and bills endorsed. Similarly, until 2004, the requirement to establish other allowances in respect of unused credit lines applied only to the unused credit limit for cash advances on active credit card accounts, defined as those with a transaction recorded during the past year. Commencing in the second half of 2005, the requirement was extended to cover the unused credit limit for credit card purchases on active accounts, as well as the unused credit limit on consumer and corporate loans. These changes resulted in a significant increase in our allowance for acceptances and guarantees and other allowances under Korean GAAP, and a corresponding decrease in our income before income tax under Korean GAAP, in 2005. Furthermore, in the second half of 2006, the Financial Services Commission increased the minimum required provisioning levels applicable to loans, confirmed and unconfirmed acceptances and guarantees, bills endorsed and unused credit lines that are classified as normal and precautionary. The Financial Services Commission also extended the requirement to establish other allowances on unused credit lines to cover inactive credit card accounts. These changes resulted in a significant increase in our allowance for loan losses, allowance for acceptances and guarantees and other allowances under Korean GAAP, and a corresponding decrease in our income before income tax under Korean GAAP, in 2006. In addition, in the second half of 2007, the Financial Services Commission increased the minimum required provisioning levels applicable to corporate loans and other credits classified as normal. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Supervision and Regulation — Principal Regulations Applicable to Banks — Capital Adequacy and Allowances.” This change resulted in a significant increase in our allowance for loan losses, allowance for acceptances and guarantees and other allowances for unused lines of credit under Korean GAAP, and a corresponding decrease in our income before income tax under Korean GAAP, in 2007. Any future required increases in our provisions for loan losses under Korean GAAP could have an adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition under Korean GAAP and our reported capital adequacy ratios, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and American depositary shares, or ADSs. The Korean government may promote lending and financial support by the Korean financial industry to certain types of borrowers as a matter of policy, which financial institutions, including us, may decide to follow. Through its policies and recommendations, the Korean government has promoted and, as a matter of policy, may continue to attempt to promote lending by the Korean financial industry to particular types of borrowers. For example, the Korean government has in the past provided and may continue to provide policy loans, which encourage lending to particular types of borrowers. It has generally done this by identifying sectors of the economy it wishes to promote and making low-interest funding available to financial institutions that may voluntarily choose to lend to these sectors. The government has in this manner provided policy loans intended to promote mortgage lending to low-income individuals and lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises. All loans or credits we choose to make pursuant to these policy loans would be subject to review in accordance with our credit approval procedures. However, the availability of policy loans may influence us to lend to certain sectors or in a manner in which we otherwise would not in the absence of such loans from the government. In the past, the Korean government has also announced policies under which financial institutions in Korea may voluntarily choose to provide financial support to particular sectors, including remedial programs for troubled corporate borrowers. For example, in light of the financial market instability in Korea resulting from the liquidity problems faced by credit card companies during the first quarter of 2003, the Korean government announced temporary measures in April 2003 intended to provide liquidity support to credit card companies. In addition, in light of the deteriorating financial condition and liquidity position of small- and medium-sized enterprises in Korea as a result of the global financial crisis commencing in the second half of 2008 and continuing adverse conditions in the Korean economy affecting consumers, the Korean government has introduced measures intended to encourage Korean banks to provide financial support to small- and medium-sized enterprise and retail borrowers. See “— Risks relating to our retail credit portfolio — Future changes in market conditions as well as other factors may 27 Table of Contents lead to increases in delinquency levels of our retail loan portfolio” and “— Risks relating to our small- and medium-sized enterprise loan portfolio — We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and any financial difficulties experienced by these customers may result in a deterioration of our asset quality and have an adverse impact on us.” The Korean government may in the future request financial institutions in Korea, including us, to make investments in or provide other forms of financial support to particular sectors of the Korean economy as a matter of policy, which financial institutions, including us, may decide to accept. We may incur costs or losses as a result of providing such financial support. The Financial Services Commission may impose burdensome measures on us if it deems us or one of our subsidiaries to be financially unsound. If the Financial Services Commission deems our financial condition or the financial condition of our subsidiaries to be unsound, or if we or our subsidiaries fail to meet applicable regulatory standards, such as minimum capital adequacy and liquidity ratios, the Financial Services Commission may order, among other things: • capital increases or reductions; • stock cancellations or consolidations; • transfers of business; • sales of assets; • closures of branch offices; • mergers with other financial institutions; and • suspensions of a part or all of our business operations. If any of these measures are imposed on us by the Financial Services Commission, they could hurt our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the Financial Services Commission orders us to partially or completely reduce our capital, you may lose part or all of your investment. The Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act may intensify competition in the Korean financial industry. In July 2007, the National Assembly of Korea enacted the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, a new law intended to enhance the integration of the Korean capital markets and financial investment products industry, which became effective in February 2009. As a result, Kookmin Bank and other banks in Korea face greater competition in the Korean financial services market from securities companies and other non-bank financial institutions. For example, securities companies previously were not permitted to accept deposits other than for purposes of securities investment by customers or provide secondary services in connection with securities investments such as settlement and remittance relating to such deposits. However, under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, financial investment companies, which replaced securities companies, among others, are able to provide such secondary services. Accordingly, Kookmin Bank and other banks in Korea may experience a loss of customer deposits (which in turn may result in a need to seek alternative funding sources and an increase in its funding costs), as well as a decrease in its settlement and remittance service fee income. Risks relating to Korea Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapon and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the 28 Table of Contents international community. In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. In addition to conducting test flights of long-range missiles, North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction and from providing luxury goods to North Korea, imposes an asset freeze and travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons program, and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including through inspection of cargo to or from North Korea. In response, North Korea agreed in February 2007 at the six-party talks to shut down and seal the Yongbyon nuclear facility, including the reprocessing facility, and readmit international inspectors to conduct all necessary monitoring and verifications. In October 2007, Korea and North Korea held a summit meeting to discuss easing tensions and fostering peace on the Korean peninsula. Lee Myung Bak, who became the President of Korea in February 2008, has announced that no further summit meetings will be held until North Korea discontinues its nuclear weapons program. In October 2008, North Korea agreed to a series of denuclearization verification measures, following the removal of North Korea from a list of state sponsors of terrorism maintained by the United States. In April 2009, North Korea launched a long-range rocket over the Pacific Ocean. Korea, Japan and the United States responded that the launch poses a threat to neighboring nations and that it was in violation of the United Nations Security Council resolution adopted in 2006 against nuclear tests by North Korea, and the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution that condemned North Korea for the launch and decided to tighten sanctions against North Korea. Subsequently, North Korea announced that it would permanently pull out of the six party talks and restart its nuclear program, and the International Atomic Energy Agency reported that its inspectors had been ordered to remove surveillance devices and other equipment at the Yongbyon nuclear power plant and to leave North Korea. On May 25, 2009, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted a second nuclear test and test-fired three short-range surface-to-air missiles. In response, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution that condemned North Korea for the nuclear test and decided to expand and tighten sanctions against North Korea. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership crisis, high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market value of our common stock and ADSs. Unfavorable financial and economic developments in Korea may have an adverse effect on us. We are incorporated in Korea, and substantially all of our operations are located in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in Korea in recent years have shown mixed signs of growth and uncertainty, and future growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Recent difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. See “Other risks relating to our business — Difficult conditions in the global financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.” As liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global financial markets increased significantly in the second half of 2008 and into 2009, the value of the Won relative to the U.S. dollar has depreciated at an accelerated rate. See “Exchange Rates.” Such depreciation of the Won has increased the cost of imported goods and services and the Won revenue needed by Korean companies to service foreign currency-denominated debt. 29 Table of Contents Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been a significant overall decline and continuing volatility in the stock prices of Korean companies. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (known as the “KOSPI”) declined by over 16.7% from 1,674.92 on June 30, 2008 to 1,394.71 on June 5, 2009. Further declines in the KOSPI and large amounts of sales of Korean securities by foreign investors and subsequent repatriation of the proceeds of such sales may continue to adversely affect the value of the Won, the foreign currency reserves held by financial institutions in Korea, and the ability of Korean companies to raise capital. Any future deterioration of the Korean or global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could hurt Korea’s economy in the future include: • continuing difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates and stock markets; • continuing adverse conditions in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Korean government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of chaebols, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain chaebols; • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or an outbreak of swine or avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. 30 Table of Contents Labor unrest in Korea may adversely affect our operations. Continuing economic difficulties in Korea or further increases in corporate reorganizations and bankruptcies could result in layoffs and higher unemployment. Such developments could lead to social unrest and substantially increase government expenditures for unemployment compensation and other costs for social programs. According to statistics from the Korea National Statistical Office, the unemployment rate was 3.7% in 2004 and 2005 and decreased to 3.5% in 2006 and to 3.2% in 2007 and 2008. However, the unemployment rate has reportedly increased in the first quarter of 2009, primarily as a result of adverse economic conditions in Korea. Further increases in unemployment and any resulting labor unrest in the future could adversely affect our operations, as well as the operations of many of our customers and their ability to repay their loans, and could adversely affect the financial condition of Korean companies in general, depressing the price of their securities. These developments would likely have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our common stock and ADSs Ownership of our common stock is restricted under Korean law. Under Korean law, a single stockholder, together with its affiliates, is generally prohibited from owning more than 10.0% of the issued and outstanding shares of voting stock of a financial holding company such as us that controls a nationwide bank, with the exception of certain stockholders that are non-financial group companies, whose applicable limit is 4.0%. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Supervision and Regulation — Principal Regulations Applicable to Financial Holding Companies — Restrictions on Ownership of a Financial Holding Company.” To the extent that the total number of shares of our common stock (including those represented by ADSs) that a holder and its affiliates own together exceeds the applicable limits, that holder will not be entitled to exercise the voting rights for the excess shares, and the Financial Services Commission may order that holder to dispose of the excess shares within a period of up to six months. Failure to comply with such an order would result in an administrative fine of up to 0.03% of the book value of such shares per day until the date of disposal. A holder of our ADSs may not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless it has withdrawn the underlying shares of our common stock and become our direct stockholder. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business and the merger or consolidation of us with another company, dissenting stockholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights if the depositary refuses to do so on their behalf. Our deposit agreement does not require the depositary to take any action in respect of exercising dissent and appraisal rights. In such a situation, holders of our ADSs must withdraw the underlying common stock from the ADS facility (and incur charges relating to that withdrawal) and become our direct stockholder prior to the record date of the stockholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved, in order to exercise dissent and appraisal rights. A holder of our ADSs may be limited in its ability to deposit or withdraw common stock. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of common stock may deposit such stock with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the depositary and receive common stock. However, to the extent that a deposit of common stock exceeds the difference between: (1) the aggregate number of common shares we have deposited or we have consented to allow to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs); and (2) the number of shares of common stock on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common stock will not be accepted for deposit unless (A) our consent with respect to such deposit has been obtained; or (B) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations. 31 Table of Contents Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required if the shares of common stock are obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such stock. We have consented, under the terms of the deposit agreement, to any deposit to the extent that, after the deposit, the number of deposited shares does not exceed such number of shares as we determine from time to time (which number shall at no time be less than 100,000,000 shares), unless the deposit would be prohibited by applicable laws or violate our articles of incorporation. We might not consent to the deposit of any additional common stock. As a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common stock, it may not be able to deposit the stock again to obtain ADSs. A holder of our ADSs will not have preemptive rights in some circumstances. The Korean Commercial Code of 1962, as amended, and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer stockholders the right to subscribe for new shares of our common stock in proportion to their existing shareholding ratio whenever new shares are issued. If we offer any rights to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature, the depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to holders of our ADSs or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of such holders and make the net proceeds available to such holders. The depositary, however, is not required to make available to holders any rights to purchase any additional shares of our common stock unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and: • a registration statement filed by us under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from or is not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Similarly, holders of our common stock located in the United States may not exercise any such rights they receive absent registration or an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, a holder of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in its holdings. If a registration statement is required for a holder of our ADSs to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us or is not declared effective, the holder will not be able to exercise its preemptive rights for additional ADSs and it will suffer dilution of its equity interest in us. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or feasible, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case the holder will receive no value for these rights. Dividend payments and the amount a holder of our ADSs may realize upon a sale of its ADSs will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Won. Our common stock is listed on the Stock Market Division of the Korea Exchange and quoted and traded in Won. Cash dividends, if any, in respect of the shares represented by the ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars, subject to certain conditions. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the amounts a holder of our ADSs will receive from the depositary in respect of dividends, the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds that it would receive upon sale in Korea of the shares of our common stock obtained upon surrender of ADSs and the secondary market price of ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the U.S. dollar value of dividends and sales proceeds received by holders of our common stock. The market value of an investment in our ADSs may fluctuate due to the volatility of the Korean securities market. Our common stock is listed on the Stock Market Division of the Korea Exchange, which has a smaller market capitalization and is more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and many European countries. The market value of ADSs may fluctuate in response to the fluctuation of the trading price of shares of our common 32 Table of Contents stock on the Stock Market Division of the Korea Exchange. The Stock Market Division of the Korea Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities and the Stock Market Division of the Korea Exchange has prescribed a fixed range in which share prices are permitted to move on a daily basis. The KOSPI declined by over 16.7% from 1,674.92 on June 30, 2008 to 1,394.71 on June 5, 2009. Like other securities markets, including those in developed markets, the Korean securities market has experienced problems including market manipulation, insider trading and settlement failures. The recurrence of these or similar problems could have a material adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the securities of Korean companies, including our common stock and ADSs, in both the domestic and the international markets. The Korean government has the potential ability to exert substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector business community, and in the past has exerted that influence from time to time. For example, the Korean government has promoted mergers to reduce what it considers excess capacity in a particular industry and has also encouraged private companies to publicly offer their securities. Similar actions in the future could have the effect of depressing or boosting the Korean securities market, whether or not intended to do so. Accordingly, actions by the government, or the perception that such actions are taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause sudden movements in the market prices of the securities of Korean companies in the future, which may affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock and ADSs. If the Korean government deems that emergency circumstances are likely to occur, it may restrict holders of our ADSs and the depositary from converting and remitting dividends and other amounts in U.S. dollars. If the Korean government deems that certain emergency circumstances, including, but not limited to, severe and sudden changes in domestic or overseas economic circumstances, extreme difficulty in stabilizing the balance of payments or implementing currency exchange rate and other macroeconomic policies, have occurred or are likely to occur, it may impose certain restrictions provided for under the Foreign Exchange Transaction Law, including the suspension of payments or requiring prior approval from governmental authorities for any transaction. See “Item 10D. Exchange Controls — General.” A holder of our ADSs may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a corporation with limited liability organized under the laws of Korea. Substantially all of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document reside in Korea, and all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document and substantially all of our assets are located in Korea. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process within the United States, or to enforce against them or us in the United States judgments obtained in United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the United States federal securities laws. 