Risk Factors Risks relating to our retail credit portfolio Future changes in market conditions as well as other factors may lead to increases in delinquency levels of our retail loan portfolio. In recent years, consumer debt has increased rapidly in Korea. Our portfolio of retail loans, in particular, mortgage and home equity loans, has grown from W85,571 billion as of December 31, 2006 to W97,627 billion as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, our retail loans represented 49.7% of our total lending. Within our retail loan portfolio, the outstanding balance of other consumer loans, which unlike mortgage or home equity loans are often unsecured and therefore tend to carry a higher credit risk, has increased from W21,589 billion as of December 31, 2006 to W26,949 billion as of December 31, 2009; as a percentage of total outstanding retail loans, such balance has also increased from 25.2% as of December 31, 2006 to 27.6% as of December 31, 2009. The growth of our retail lending business, which generally offers higher margins than other lending activities, contributed significantly to our interest income and profitability in recent years. The size of our retail portfolio decreased in 2005 due to increased delinquencies in 2004, heightened competition and government regulation in the retail loan lending segment, but increased in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 primarily as a result of increases in mortgage and home equity loans. The growth of our retail loan portfolio in recent years, together with adverse economic conditions in Korea and globally, may lead to increases in delinquency levels and a deterioration in asset quality. While our non-performing retail loans (defined as those that are over 90 days past due) decreased from W629 billion as of December 31, 2006 to W290 billion as of December 31, 2009 due to the relative stabilization of delinquency levels during such period, our non-performing retail loans may increase in 2010. Higher delinquencies in our retail loan portfolio will require us to increase our loan loss provisions and charge-offs, which in turn will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our large exposure to consumer debt means that we are exposed to changes in economic conditions affecting Korean consumers. Accordingly, a rise in unemployment, an increase in interest rates, deterioration of the real estate market or difficulties in the Korean economy may have an adverse effect on Korean consumers, which could result in reduced growth and further deterioration in the credit quality of our retail loan portfolio. See “Risks relating to Korea — Unfavorable financial and economic developments in Korea may have an adverse effect on us.” In order to minimize our risk as a result of such exposure, we are continuing to strengthen our risk management processes, including further improving the retail lending process, upgrading our retail credit rating system, as well as strengthening the overall management of our portfolio. Despite our efforts, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to prevent significant credit quality deterioration in our retail loan portfolio. In light of adverse conditions in the Korean economy affecting consumers, in March 2009, the Financial Services Commission requested Korean banks, including us, to establish a “pre-workout program,” including a credit counseling and recovery service, for retail borrowers with outstanding short-term debt. The pre-workout program has been in operation since April 2009 and, following a one-year extension by the Korean government, is expected to continue until April 2011. Under the pre-workout program, maturity extensions and/or interest reductions are provided for retail borrowers with total loans of less than W500 million who are in arrears on their payments for more than 30 days but less than 90 days. Our participation in such pre-workout program and other government-led initiatives to provide financial support to retail borrowers may lead us to extend credit to such borrowers that we would not otherwise extend, or offer terms for such credit that we would not otherwise offer, in the absence of such initiatives, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our credit card operations may generate losses in the future, which could hurt our financial condition and results of operations. With respect to our credit card portfolio, our delinquency ratio (which represents the ratio of amounts that are overdue by one day or more to total outstanding balances) decreased from 4.81% as of December 31, 2006 to 2.52% as of December 31, 2009. In line with industry practice, we have restructured a portion of delinquent credit card account balances (defined as balances overdue for one day or more) as loans. As of December 31, 2009, these restructured loans outstanding amounted to W31 billion. Because these loans are not treated as being delinquent at the time of conversion or for a period of time thereafter, our delinquency ratios may not fully reflect all delinquent amounts relating to our outstanding loans. Including all restructured loans, outstanding balances overdue by one day or more accounted for 2.73% of our credit card receivables (including credit card loans) as of December 31, 2009. Delinquencies may increase in 2010 and in the future as a result of, among other things, adverse economic conditions in Korea and the inability of Korean consumers to manage increased household debt. Despite our continuing efforts to sustain and improve our credit card asset quality and performance, we may experience increased delinquencies or deterioration of the asset quality of our credit card portfolio, which would require us to increase our loan loss provisions and charge-offs and adversely affect our overall financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our small- and medium-sized enterprise loan portfolio We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and any financial difficulties experienced by these customers may result in a deterioration of our asset quality and have an adverse impact on us. One of our core businesses is lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises (as defined under “Item 4B. Business Overview — Corporate Banking — Small- and Medium-sized Enterprise Banking”). We estimate, based on our internal classifications made for Korean GAAP purposes, that our loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises increased from W41,498 billion as of December 31, 2006 to W67,121 billion as of December 31, 2009. During that period, we estimate that non-performing loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises decreased from W1,451 billion to W1,015 billion and the non-performing loan ratio for such loans decreased from 3.5% as of December 31, 2006 to 1.5% as of December 31, 2009. According to data compiled by the Financial Supervisory Service, the delinquency ratio for Won-currency loans by Korean commercial banks to small- and medium-sized enterprises was 1.1% as of December 31, 2009. Until December 31, 2006, the delinquency ratio for loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises was calculated as the ratio of (1) the outstanding balance of such loans in respect of which either principal payments are overdue by one day or more or interest payments are overdue by 14 days or more (unless prior interest payments on a loan were made late on more than three occasions, in which case the loan is considered delinquent if interest payments are overdue by one day or more) to (2) the aggregate outstanding balance of such loans. From January 1, 2007, the delinquency ratio for loans to small- and medium-sized enterprise is calculated as the ratio of (1) the outstanding balance of such loans in respect of which either principal or interest payments are overdue by one month or more to (2) the aggregate outstanding balance of such loans. Our delinquency ratio for such Won currency loans on a Korean GAAP basis decreased from 1.0% as of December 31, 2006, calculated using the old method of calculation, to 0.6% as of December 31, 2007, calculated using the new method of calculation, but increased to 0.7% as of December 31, 2009 and may further increase in 2010. In recent years, we have taken measures which sought to stem rising delinquencies in our loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through strengthening the review of loan applications and closer monitoring of the post-loan performance of small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers in industry sectors that are relatively more sensitive to downturns in the economy and have shown higher delinquency ratios, such as construction, hotels, restaurants and real estate. Despite such efforts, however, there is no assurance that delinquency levels for our loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises will not rise in the future. In particular, financial difficulties experienced by small- and medium-sized enterprises as a result of, among other things, adverse economic conditions in Korea and globally, may lead to a deterioration in the asset quality of our loans to this segment. Any such deterioration would result in increased charge-offs and higher provisioning and reduced interest and fee income from this segment, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In addition, many small- and medium-sized enterprises have close business relationships with the largest Korean commercial conglomerates, known as “chaebols,” primarily as suppliers. Any difficulties encountered by those chaebols would likely hurt the liquidity and financial condition of related small- and medium-sized enterprises, including those to which we have exposure, also resulting in an impairment of their ability to repay loans. A substantial part of our small- and medium-sized enterprise lending comprises loans to “small office/home office” customers, or SOHOs. SOHOs, which we currently define to include sole proprietorships and individual business interests, are usually dependent on a limited number of suppliers or customers. SOHOs tend to be affected to a greater extent than larger corporate borrowers by fluctuations in the Korean economy. In addition, SOHOs often maintain less sophisticated financial records than other corporate borrowers. Although we continue to make efforts to improve our internally developed credit rating systems to rate potential borrowers, particularly with respect to SOHOs, and intend to manage our exposure to these borrowers closely in order to prevent any deterioration in the asset quality of our loans to this segment, we may not be able to do so as intended. In light of the deteriorating financial condition and liquidity position of small- and medium-sized enterprises in Korea since the global financial crisis commencing in the second half of 2008, the Korean government introduced policies and initiatives intended to encourage Korean banks to provide financial support to small- and medium-sized enterprises. For example, in November 2008, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Financial Supervisory Service under which we were required to improve the liquidity position of small- and medium-sized enterprises and exporters by providing them with adequate financing and to endeavor to alleviate burdens on low-income debtors by extending maturity dates or by delaying interest payments on loans owed to us. In addition, in October 2008, the Financial Supervisory Service requested Korean banks, including us, to establish a “fast track” program to provide liquidity assistance to small- and medium-sized enterprises on an expedited basis. Under the fast track program we established, which is effective through June 30, 2010, we provide liquidity assistance to small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers applying for such assistance, in the form of new short-term loans or maturity extensions or interest rate adjustments with respect to existing loans, after expedited credit review and approval by us. The overall prospects for the Korean economy in 2010 and beyond remain uncertain, and the Korean government may extend existing policies and initiatives or introduce new policies or initiatives to encourage Korean banks to provide financial support to small- and medium-sized enterprises. Our participation in such government-led initiatives may lead us to extend credit to small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers that we would not otherwise extend, or offer terms for such credit that we would not otherwise offer, in the absence of such initiatives. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the financial condition and liquidity position of our small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers benefiting from such initiatives will improve sufficiently for them to service their debt on a timely basis, or at all. Accordingly, increases in our exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers resulting from such government-led initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have exposure to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies, and financial difficulties of these companies may have an adverse impact on us. As of December 31, 2009, we had loans outstanding to construction companies and shipbuilding companies (many of which are small-and medium-sized enterprises) in the amount of W8,097 billion and W1,300 billion, or 4.1% and 0.7% of our total loans, respectively. We also have other exposures to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies, including in the form of guarantees extended for the benefit of such companies and debt and equity securities of such companies held by us. In the case of construction companies, such exposures include guarantees provided to us by general contractors with respect to financing extended by us for residential and commercial real estate development projects. In the case of shipbuilding companies, such exposures include refund guarantees extended by us on behalf of shipbuilding companies to cover their obligation to return a portion of the ship order contract amount to customers in the event of performance delays or defaults under shipbuilding contracts. The construction industry in Korea has experienced a downturn in recent years, due to excessive investment in residential property development projects, stagnation of real property prices and reduced demand for residential property, especially in areas outside of Seoul, including as a result of the deterioration of the Korean economy commencing in the second half of 2008. In October 2008, the Korean government implemented a W9 trillion 15 Table of Contents support package for the benefit of the Korean construction industry, including a program to buy unsold housing units and land from construction companies. The shipbuilding industry in Korea has also experienced a severe downturn in recent years due to a significant decrease in ship orders, primarily due to adverse conditions in the global economy and the resulting slowdown in global trade. In response to the deteriorating financial condition and liquidity position of borrowers in the construction and shipbuilding industries, which were disproportionately impacted by adverse economic developments in Korea and globally, the Korean government implemented a program in the first half of 2009 to promote expedited restructuring of such borrowers by their Korean creditor financial institutions, under the supervision of major commercial banks. In accordance with such program, 24 construction companies and five shipbuilding companies became subject to workout in 2009, following review by their creditor financial institutions (including us) and the Korean government. However, there is no assurance that these measures will be successful in stabilizing the Korean construction and shipbuilding industries. The allowances that we have established against our credit exposures to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies may not be sufficient to cover all future losses arising from these and other exposures. If the credit quality of our exposures to Korean construction and shipbuilding companies declines further, we may be required to take substantial additional provisions (including in connection with restructurings of such companies), which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, although a portion of our credit exposures to construction and shipbuilding companies are secured by collateral, such collateral may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts in respect of such credit exposures. See “— Other risks relating to our business — A decline in the value of the collateral securing our loans and our inability to realize full collateral value may adversely affect our credit portfolio.” Risks relating to our financial holding company structure and strategy We have a limited operating history as a financial holding company, and we may not succeed in implementing our strategy to take advantage of, or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of, our financial holding company structure. We were established as a new financial holding company in September 2008 pursuant to a “comprehensive stock transfer” under Korean law, following the completion of which Kookmin Bank, KB Investment & Securities Co., Ltd., KB Asset Management Co., Ltd., KB Real Estate Trust Co., Ltd., KB Investment Co., Ltd., KB Futures Co., Ltd., KB Credit Information Co., Ltd., and KB Data Systems Co., Ltd. became our wholly-owned subsidiaries. See “Item 4A. History and Development of the Company — The Establishment of KB Financial Group.” One of our principal strategies is to take advantage of our financial holding company structure to become a comprehensive financial services provider capable of offering a full range of products and services to our large existing base of retail and corporate banking customers. The continued implementation of these plans may require additional investments of capital, infrastructure, human resources and management attention. This strategy entails certain risks, including the possibility that we may face significant competition from other financial holding companies and more specialized financial institutions in particular segments. If our strategy does not succeed, we may incur losses on our investments and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Furthermore, our success under a financial holding company structure depends on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from coordinating the businesses of our various subsidiaries. Although we are integrating certain aspects of our subsidiaries’ operations into our financial holding company structure, our subsidiaries will generally continue to operate as independent entities with separate management and staff. As a result, our ability to direct our subsidiaries’ day-to-day operations may be limited. In addition, one of the intended benefits of our financial holding company structure is that it enhances our ability to engage in mergers and acquisitions which we decide to pursue in the future as part of our strategy. For example, the Korean government has announced that it plans to dispose of or reduce its controlling interest in Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. (the financial holding company of Woori Bank), while the Lone Star funds have announced that they plan to sell their controlling interest in Korea Exchange Bank, and it is possible that we will decide to seek to acquire or merge with such financial institutions. The integration of our subsidiaries’ separate businesses and operations, as well as those of any companies we may acquire or merge with in the future, under our financial holding company structure could require a significant amount of time, financial resources and management 16 Table of Contents attention. Moreover, that process could disrupt our operations (including our risk management operations) or information technology systems, reduce employee morale, produce unintended inconsistencies in our standards, controls, procedures or policies, and affect our relationships with customers and our ability to retain key personnel. The realization of the anticipated benefits of our financial holding company structure and any mergers or acquisitions we decide to pursue may be blocked, delayed or reduced as a result of many factors, some of which may be outside our control. These factors include: • difficulties in integrating the diverse activities and operations of our subsidiaries or any companies we may merge with or acquire, including risk management operations and information technology systems, personnel, policies and procedures; • difficulties in reorganizing or reducing overlapping personnel, branches, networks and administrative functions; • restrictions under the Financial Holding Company Act and other regulations on transactions between a financial holding company and, or among, its subsidiaries; • unforeseen contingent risks, including lack of required capital resources, increased tax liabilities or restrictions in our overseas operations, relating to our financial holding company structure; • unexpected business disruptions; • failure to attract, develop and retain personnel with necessary expertise; • loss of customers; and • labor unrest. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our financial holding company structure, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer as a result. We depend on limited forms of funding to fund our operations at the holding company level. We are a financial holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of our subsidiaries. Our primary sources of funding and liquidity are dividends from our subsidiaries, direct borrowings and issuances of equity or debt securities at the holding company level. In addition, as a financial holding company, we are required to meet certain minimum financial ratios under Korean law, including with respect to liquidity, leverage and capital adequacy. Our ability to meet our obligations to our direct creditors and employees and our other liquidity needs and regulatory requirements at the holding company level depends on timely and adequate distributions from our subsidiaries and our ability to sell our securities or obtain credit from our lenders. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us depends on their financial condition and operating results. In the future, our subsidiaries may enter into agreements, such as credit agreements with lenders or indentures relating to high-yield or subordinated debt instruments, that impose restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, and the terms of future obligations and the operation of Korean law could prevent our subsidiaries from making sufficient distributions to us to allow us to make payments on our outstanding obligations. See “— As a financial holding company, we depend on receiving dividends from our subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock.” Any delay in receipt of or shortfall in payments to us from our subsidiaries could result in our inability to meet our liquidity needs and regulatory requirements, including minimum liquidity and capital adequacy ratios, and may disrupt our operations at the holding company level. In addition, creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have claims that are prior to any claims of our creditors with respect to their assets. Furthermore, our inability to sell our securities or obtain funds from our lenders on favorable terms, or at all, could also result in our inability to meet our liquidity needs and regulatory requirements and may disrupt our operations at the holding company level. 17 Table of Contents As a financial holding company, we depend on receiving dividends from our subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock. Since our principal assets at the holding company level are the shares of our subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock largely depends on dividend payments from those subsidiaries. Those dividend payments are subject to the Korean Commercial Code, the Bank Act and regulatory limitations, generally based on capital levels and retained earnings, imposed by the various regulatory agencies with authority over those entities. For example: • under the Korean Commercial Code, dividends may only be paid out of distributable income, an amount which is calculated by subtracting the aggregate amount of a company’s paid-in capital and certain mandatory legal reserves from its net assets, in each case as of the end of the prior fiscal period; • under the Bank Act, a bank also must credit at least 10% of its net profit to a legal reserve each time it pays dividends on distributable income until that reserve equals the amount of its total paid-in capital; and • under the Bank Act and the requirements of the Financial Services Commission, if a bank fails to meet its required capital adequacy ratio or otherwise becomes subject to management improvement measures imposed by the Financial Services Commission, then the Financial Services Commission may restrict the declaration and payment of dividends by that bank. Our subsidiaries may not continue to meet the applicable legal and regulatory requirements for the payment of dividends in the future. If they fail to do so, they may stop paying or reduce the amount of the dividends they pay to us, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Although increasing our fee income is an important part of our strategy, we may not be able to do so. We have historically relied on interest income as our primary revenue source. While we have developed new sources of fee income as part of our business strategy, our ability to increase our fee income and thereby reduce our dependence on interest income will be affected by the extent to which our customers generally accept the concept of fee-based services. Historically, customers in Korea have generally been reluctant to pay fees in return for value-added financial services, and their continued reluctance to do so will adversely affect the implementation of this aspect of our strategy. In March 2007, we reduced or waived many of the fees we charge on our banking services, in response to customer demand. Specifically, we reduced or waived our fees on fund transfers through our Internet, mobile and telephone banking services, as well as on transfers and after-hour withdrawals through ATMs. We also reduced our wire transfer fees and eliminated the fees we charge on issuance of bankers’ checks and certain tax-related statements. These measures may continue to limit the growth in our banking-related fee income. We may suffer customer attrition or our net interest margin may decrease as a result of our competition strategy. We have been pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, a strategy of maintaining or enhancing our margins where possible and avoid, to the extent possible, entering into price competition. In order to execute this strategy, we will need to maintain relatively low interest rates on our deposit products while charging relatively higher rates on loans. If other banks and financial institutions adopt a strategy of expanding market share through interest rate competition, we may suffer customer attrition due to rate sensitivity. In addition, we may in the future decide to compete to a greater extent based on interest rates, which could lead to a decrease in our net interest margins. Any future decline in our customer base or our net interest margins as a result of our future competition strategy could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Risks relating to competition Competition in the Korean financial industry is intense, and we may lose market share and experience declining margins as a result. Competition in the Korean financial industry has been and is likely to remain intense. Some of the financial institutions that we compete with have longer operating histories as financial holding companies, greater financial resources or more specialized capabilities than us and our subsidiaries. In the retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise lending business, which has been our traditional core business, competition has increased significantly and is expected to increase further. Most Korean banks have been focusing on retail customers and small- and medium-sized enterprises in recent years, although they have begun to generally increase their exposure to large corporate borrowers. In addition, the profitability of our retail and credit card operations may decline as a result of growing market saturation in the retail lending and credit card segments, increased interest rate competition, pressure to lower the fee rates applicable to our credit cards (particularly merchant fee rates) and higher marketing expenses. Intense and increasing competition has made and continues to make it more difficult for us to secure retail, credit card and small- and medium-sized customers with the credit quality and on credit terms necessary to achieve our business objectives in a commercially acceptable manner. In addition, we believe that regulatory reforms, including the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act which became effective in February 2009, and the general modernization of business practices in Korea will lead to increased competition among financial institutions in Korea. We also believe that foreign financial institutions, many of which have greater experience and resources than we do, will seek to compete with us in providing financial products and services either by themselves or in partnership with existing Korean financial institutions. Furthermore, a number of significant mergers and acquisitions in the industry have taken place in Korea over the past decade, including the acquisition of Koram Bank by an affiliate of Citibank in 2004, Standard Chartered Bank’s acquisition of Korea First Bank in 2005 and Chohung Bank’s merger with Shinhan Bank in April 2006. We expect that consolidation in the financial industry will continue. In particular, the Korean government has announced that it plans to privatize the Korea Development Bank and to dispose of or reduce its controlling interest in Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. (the financial holding company of Woori Bank), while the Lone Star funds have announced that they plan to sell their controlling interest in Korea Exchange Bank. Other financial institutions may seek to acquire or merge with such entities, and the financial institutions resulting from this consolidation may, by virtue of their increased size and business scope, provide significantly greater competition for us. Increased competition and continuing consolidation may lead to decreased margins, resulting in a material adverse impact on our future profitability. Accordingly our results of operations and financial condition may suffer as a result of increasing competition in the Korean financial industry. Risks relating to our large corporate loan portfolio We have exposure to chaebols, and, as a result, recent and any future financial difficulties of chaebols may have an adverse impact on us. Of our 20 largest corporate exposures (including loans, debt and equity securities, guarantees and acceptances and other exposures) as of December 31, 2009, five were to companies that were members of the 41 largest chaebols in Korea designated as such by the Financial Supervisory Service based on their outstanding exposures. As of that date, the total amount of our exposures to such 41 chaebols was W19,754 billion, or 7.9% of our total exposures. If the credit quality of our exposures to chaebols declines, we could require substantial additional loan loss provisions, which would hurt our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Assets and Liabilities — Loan Portfolio — Exposure to Chaebols.” We cannot assure you that the allowances we have established against these exposures will be sufficient to cover all future losses arising from these exposures. In addition, with respect to those companies that are in or in the future enter into workout or liquidation proceedings, we may not be able to make any recoveries against such companies. We may, therefore, experience future losses with respect to those loans. 19 Table of Contents We have exposure to companies that are currently or may in the future be put in restructuring, and we may suffer losses as a result of additional loan loss provisions required and/or the adoption of restructuring plans with which we do not agree. As of December 31, 2009, our loans and guarantees to companies that were in workout, restructuring or rehabilitation amounted to W468 billion or 0.2% of our total loans and guarantees, of which W357 billion or 76.3% was classified as substandard or below and all of which was classified as impaired. As of the same date, our allowances for losses on these loans and guarantees amounted to W242 billion, or 51.7% of these loans and guarantees. These allowances may not be sufficient to cover all future losses arising from our exposure to these companies. Furthermore, we have other exposure to such companies, in the form of debt and equity securities of such companies held by us (including equity securities we acquired as a result of debt-to-equity conversions). Our exposures as of December 31, 2009 with respect to such securities of companies in workout, restructuring or rehabilitation amounted to W17 billion, or less than 0.1% of our total exposures, but may increase in the future. In addition, in the case of borrowers that are or become subject to workout, we may be forced to restructure our credits pursuant to restructuring plans approved by other creditor financial institutions holding 75% or more of the total outstanding debt (as well as 75% or more of the total outstanding secured debt) of the borrower, or to dispose of our credits to other creditors on unfavorable terms. We have exposure to member companies of the Kumho Asiana Group, and financial difficulties of these companies may adversely impact us. Several member companies of the Kumho Asiana Group, one of Korea’s largest chaebols, have been experiencing financial difficulties, including as a result of their heavily leveraged acquisition of Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. in 2006 and the subsequent global financial crisis commencing in the second half of 2008. In January 2010, Kumho Tires Co., Inc. and Kumho Industrial Co., Ltd. agreed with their creditors, including us, to begin an out-of-court debt restructuring program under the Corporate Restructuring Promotion Act. In addition, Kumho Petrochemical Co., Ltd. and Asiana Airlines announced that they would undergo a voluntary restructuring, in return for which their creditors, including us, agreed to a suspension of payments on the two companies’ debt until the end of 2010. These four companies are member companies of the Kumho Asiana Group. As of December 31, 2009, our aggregate loans and guarantees to Kumho Tires, Kumho Industrial, Kumho Petrochemical and Asiana Airlines amounted to W412 billion, of which W140 billion were classified as substandard or below. As of December 31, 2009, our allowances for credit losses with respect to such loans and guarantees amounted to W105 billion. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had other exposures to such companies relating to put options granted to us in connection with our co-investment in Daewoo Engineering & Construction with the Kumho Asiana Group (although such put options are not recorded as part of our assets in our consolidated financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP). The fair value of our holdings of Daewoo Engineering & Construction shares was W140 billion as of December 31, 2009. Moreover, in the first four months of 2010, we extended additional loans to Kumho Industrial in the aggregate amount of approximately W50 billion to provide additional liquidity in connection with its restructuring program. We also converted an aggregate of W9 billion of our loans to Kumho Industrial into equity interests in connection with its restructuring program. Our allowances may not be sufficient to cover all future losses arising from our exposures to these companies. Furthermore, in the event that the financial condition of these companies deteriorates further in the future, we may be required to record additional provisions for credit losses, as well as charge-offs and valuation or impairment losses or losses on disposal, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A large portion of our credit exposure is concentrated in a relatively small number of large corporate borrowers which increases the risk of our corporate credit portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, our loans and guarantees to our 20 largest borrowers totaled W5,706 billion and accounted for 2.7% of our total loans and guarantees. As of that date, our single largest corporate credit exposure was to Samsung Heavy Industries, to which we had outstanding credit exposures (most of which was in the form of guarantees and acceptances) of W1,638 billion, representing 0.8% of our total loans and guarantees. Any further 20 Table of Contents deterioration in the financial condition of our large corporate borrowers may require us to take substantial additional provisions and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Other risks relating to our business Difficult conditions in the global financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the second and third quarter of 2007, credit markets in the United States started to experience difficult conditions and volatility that in turn have affected worldwide financial markets. In particular, in late July and early August 2007, market uncertainty in the U.S. sub-prime mortgage sector increased dramatically and further expanded to other markets such as those for leveraged finance, collateralized debt obligations and other structured products. In September and October 2008, liquidity and credit concerns and volatility in the global financial markets increased significantly with the bankruptcy or acquisition of, and government assistance to, several major U.S. and European financial institutions, including the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“Lehman Brothers”), the acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. by the Bank of America Corp., the acquisition of Wachovia Corporation by Wells Fargo & Co., U.S. federal government conservatorship of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the Federal National Mortgage Association and Washington Mutual, Inc. and the U.S. federal government’s loans to American International Group Inc. (“AIG”) in exchange for an equity interest. These developments resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in the United States and global financial markets. In response to such developments, legislators and financial regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions, including Korea, have implemented a number of policy measures designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions. Such policy measures implemented by the Korean government and the Bank of Korea included a guarantee program to guarantee foreign currency-denominated debt incurred by Korean banks and their overseas branches, currency swap arrangements with U.S. and Chinese monetary authorities, one-time interest payments to Korean banks with respect to their required reserve deposits with the Bank of Korea (which typically does not pay interest) and the establishment of a W20 trillion bank recapitalization fund (which purchased W1 trillion of hybrid Tier I securities from us in March 2009). In addition, in line with similar actions taken by monetary authorities in other countries, from the third quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2009, the Bank of Korea decreased its policy rate by a total of 325 basis points in order to address financial market instability and to help combat the slowdown of the domestic economy. However, while the rate of deterioration of the global economy slowed in the second half of 2009 and into 2010, with some signs stabilization and possible improvement, the overall prospects for the Korean and global economy in 2010 and beyond remain uncertain. For example, in November 2009, the Dubai government announced a moratorium on the outstanding debt of Dubai World, a government-affiliated investment company. In addition, many governments worldwide, in particular in Greece and other countries in southern Europe, are showing increasing signs of fiscal stress and may experience difficulties in meeting their debt service requirements. Any of these or other developments could potentially trigger another financial and economic crisis. Furthermore, while many governments worldwide are considering or are in the process of implementing “exit strategies,” in the form of reduced government spending, higher interest rates or otherwise, with respect to the economic stimulus measures adopted in response to the global financial crisis, such strategies may, for reasons related to timing, magnitude or other factors, have the unintended consequence of prolonging or worsening global economic and financial difficulties. In light of the high level of interdependence of the global economy, any of the foregoing developments could have a material adverse effect on the Korean economy and financial markets, and in turn on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also exposed to adverse changes and volatility in global and Korean financial markets as a result of our liabilities and assets denominated in foreign currencies and our holdings of trading and investment securities, including structured products. Beginning in the second half of 2008, the value of the Won relative to major foreign currencies in general and the U.S. dollar in particular has fluctuated widely. See “Exchange Rates.” A depreciation of the Won will increase our cost in Won of servicing our foreign currency-denominated debt, while continued exchange rate volatility may also result in foreign exchange losses for us. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been an overall decline and continuing volatility in securities prices, including the stock prices of Korean and foreign companies in which we hold an interest, which have resulted in and 21 Table of Contents may lead to further trading and valuation losses on our trading and investment securities portfolio as well as impairment losses on our investments accounted for under the equity method, including our noncontrolling equity stake in JSC Bank CenterCredit, a Kazakhstan bank, the initial stake in which we acquired in 2008. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Capital Markets Activities and International Banking — International Banking.” Our business may be materially and adversely affected by legal claims and regulatory actions against us. We are subject to the risk of legal claims and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business, which may expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal costs, injunctive relief, criminal and civil penalties and regulatory restrictions on our operations, as well as significant reputational harm. In recent years, due to the difficult conditions and volatility in the worldwide financial markets, particularly the significant depreciation of the Won against the U.S. dollar and declines in securities prices from the second half of 2008 into 2009, certain of our customers brought lawsuits against Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, in connection with its sales of foreign currency derivatives products known as “KIKO” (which stands for “knock-in knock-out”) and certain investment fund products. See “Item 8A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” The outcome of these and other legal claims and regulatory actions, which we cannot predict with any degree of certainty, may materially and adversely impact our business if such claims and actions are determined against us. Our risk management system may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a group-wide risk management platform, encompassing a multi-layered risk management governance structure, reporting and monitoring systems, early warning systems, a centralized credit risk management system for our banking operations and other risk management infrastructure, using a variety of risk management strategies and techniques. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” However, such risk management strategies and techniques employed by us and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate the economic and financial outcome in all market environments, and many of our risk management strategies and techniques have a basis in historic market behavior that may limit the effectiveness of such strategies and techniques in times of significant market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, our risk management strategies may not be effective in a difficult or less liquid market environment, as other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies as us to deal with such market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult for us to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of such other market participants. We are generally subject to Korean corporate governance and disclosure standards, which may differ from those in other countries. Companies in Korea, including us, are subject to corporate governance standards applicable to Korean public companies which may differ in some respects from standards applicable in other countries, including the United States. As a reporting company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to certain corporate governance standards as mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, foreign private issuers, including us, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. There may also be less publicly available information about Korean companies, such as us, than is regularly made available by public or non-public companies in other countries. Such differences in corporate governance standards and less public information could result in corporate governance practices or disclosures that are perceived as less than satisfactory by investors in certain countries. A decline in the value of the collateral securing our loans and our inability to realize full collateral value may adversely affect our credit portfolio. A substantial portion of our loans is secured by real estate, the values of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Although it is our general policy to lend up to 40% to 60% of the appraised value of collateral (except in areas of high speculation designated by the government where we generally limit our lending to between 40% to 50% of the appraised value of collateral) and to periodically re-appraise our collateral, the downturns in the real estate market in Korea in recent years resulted in declines in the value of the collateral securing our mortgage and 22 Table of Contents home equity loans. If collateral values decline further in the future, they may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts in respect of our secured loans. Any future declines in the value of the real estate or other collateral securing our loans, or our inability to obtain additional collateral in the event of such declines, could result in a deterioration in our asset quality and may require us to take additional loan loss provisions. In Korea, foreclosure on collateral generally requires a written petition to a court. An application, when made, may be subject to delays and administrative requirements that may result in a decrease in the value realized with respect to such collateral. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to realize the full value on our collateral as a result of, among other factors, delays in foreclosure proceedings and defects in the perfection of our security interest in collateral. Our failure to recover the expected value of collateral could expose us to losses. Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, has in the past breached covenants in some of its financing documents. A number of the loan agreements of Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, contain covenants that limit its ability to pledge its assets to secure indebtedness, to dispose, sell or transfer assets or to enter into arrangements having a similar effect. In early 2009, Kookmin Bank became aware that as a result of its financing activities undertaken in the ordinary course of its business, it had breached a number of these covenants. These financing activities are as follows: • Kookmin Bank borrows funds made available to it by the Bank of Korea (most recently in connection with the Korean government’s initiative to encourage Korean banks to provide financial support to small- and medium-size enterprises) on a secured basis. See “— Risks relating to our small- and medium-sized enterprise loan portfolio — We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and any financial difficulties experienced by these customers may result in a deterioration of our asset quality and have an adverse impact on us.” • Kookmin Bank obtains financing through sale and repurchase arrangements involving the transfer of assets. • Kookmin Bank enters into swap transactions under which from time to time it may post or transfer title to collateral. • Kookmin Bank securitizes its assets from time to time for funding purposes. The assets pledged or transferred through the above financing activities comprise mainly Korean government bonds and other types of securities and mortgage loans. In each case, these financing activities were in breach of one or more of the covenants set forth in, and triggered defaults under, the relevant loan agreements. These defaults resulted in consequential breaches of representations and covenants, defaults, cross-defaults and termination events in other financing documents (including loan agreements other than the aforementioned loan agreements), swap transactions, Kookmin Bank’s bond programs and securitizations. During March and April 2009, Kookmin Bank sought and obtained waivers of the foregoing covenant breaches and default provisions from the lenders and agents under certain of the relevant loan agreements. Kookmin Bank also sought and entered into amendments to certain of the relevant loan agreements to ensure that it has the ability to enter into ordinary course financing activities, of the type described above, in the future. With respect to the relevant loan agreements for which Kookmin Bank did not obtain such amendments and waivers, Kookmin Bank repaid the related borrowings. In addition, a number of Kookmin Bank’s loan agreements contain representations, covenants or events of default that were breached or triggered as a result of the comprehensive stock transfer pursuant to which we were established in 2008, including as a result of the delisting of Kookmin Bank’s common shares from the KRX KOSPI Market (formerly known as the Stock Market Division of the Korea Exchange), the delisting of the Kookmin Bank American depositary shares from the New York Stock Exchange and the adoption of a financial holding company structure pursuant to which Kookmin Bank’s former subsidiaries became our subsidiaries. During April 2009, Kookmin Bank sought and obtained certain waivers and amendments from relevant parties affected by technical defaults stemming from the comprehensive stock transfer. 23 Table of Contents However, we cannot assure you that Kookmin Bank’s counterparties or creditors under its other financing documents and instruments, including derivatives and swap transactions, sale and repurchase arrangements, bond issuances under Kookmin Bank’s bond programs and securitizations, will not seek to assert their contractual or other remedies for breach of representations, cross-default, cross-acceleration, termination events or failure to comply with the covenants or other terms under such other financing documents and instruments as a consequence of the defaults under the above-described loan agreements, which in turn may trigger other cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. Any such developments may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The secondary market for corporate bonds in Korea is not fully developed, and, as a result, we may not be able to realize the full “marked-to-market” value of debt securities we hold at the time of any sale of such securities. As of December 31, 2009, we held debt securities issued by Korean companies and financial institutions (other than those issued by government-owned or -controlled enterprises or financial institutions, which include the Korea Electric Power Corporation, the Bank of Korea, the Korea Development Bank and the Industrial Bank of Korea) with a total book value of W9,573 billion in our trading and investment securities portfolio. The market value of these securities could decline significantly due to various factors, including future increases in interest rates or a deterioration in the financial and economic condition of any particular issuer or of Korea in general. Any of these factors individually or a combination of these factors would require us to write down the fair value of these debt securities, resulting in impairment losses. Because the secondary market for corporate bonds in Korea is not fully developed, the market value of many of these securities as reflected on our balance sheet is determined by references to suggested prices posted by Korean rating agencies or the Korea Securities Dealers Association. These valuations, however, may differ significantly from the actual value that we could realize in the event we elect to sell these securities. As a result, we may not be able to realize the full “marked-to-market” value at the time of any such sale of these securities and thus may incur losses. We have been assessed additional income taxes in respect of prior years as a result of a tax audit by the National Tax Service of Korea, and our appeal with respect to a portion of such assessment may not be successful. During the first half of 2007, the National Tax Service of Korea completed a tax audit in respect of us for the fiscal years 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, as a result of which we were assessed W190 billion (including residence tax) for tax deficiencies. In addition, during the second half of 2007, the National Tax Service of Korea assessed additional income taxes for prior years amounting to W292 billion (including residence tax) for tax deficiencies. We paid the entire amount of such additional assessments in 2007. We have filed an appeal with the National Tax Tribunal with respect to tax assessments made in 2007 amounting to W482 billion (including residence tax), and we recorded W481 billion of such income taxes paid as “Other Assets” in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007 (upon adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”)) and 2008, which was reduced to W401 billion as of December 31, 2009. See “Item 5A. Operating Results — Critical Accounting Policies — Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets and Uncertain Tax Positions.” However, there is no guarantee that such appeal will be successful or that we will not be assessed additional income taxes in respect of prior years as a result of further tax audits by the National Tax Service of Korea. We may be required to make transfers from our general banking operations to cover shortfalls in our guaranteed trust accounts, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We manage a number of money trust accounts through Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary. Under Korean law, trust account assets of a bank are required to be segregated from the assets of that bank’s general banking operations. Those assets are not available to satisfy the claims of a bank’s depositors or other creditors of its general banking operations. For some of the trust accounts we manage, we have guaranteed the principal amount of the investor’s investment. Since January 2004, banks have been prohibited from providing new trust accounts that guarantee the principal amount of investments, other than certain retirement trust and annuity trust products. 24 Table of Contents However, we will continue to provide guarantees with respect to existing accounts, which contain the afore-mentioned guarantee provisions. If, at any time, the income from our guaranteed trust accounts is not sufficient to pay any guaranteed amount, we will have to cover the shortfall first from the special reserves maintained in these trust accounts, then from our fees from such trust accounts and finally from funds transferred from our general banking operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had W76 billion as special reserves in trust account assets for which we provided guarantees of principal. There was no transfer from general banking operations to cover deficiencies in guaranteed trust accounts in 2007, 2008 and 2009. However, we may be required to make transfers from our general banking operations to cover shortfalls, if any, in our guaranteed trust accounts in the future. Such transfers may adversely impact our results of operations. Our Internet banking services are subject to security concerns relating to the commercial use of the Internet. We provide Internet banking services to our retail and corporate customers, which require sensitive customer information, including passwords and account information, to be transferred over a secure connection on the Internet. However, connections on the Internet, although secure, are not free from security breaches. We may experience security breaches or unexpected disruptions in connection with our Internet banking service in the future, which may result in liability to our customers and third parties and have an adverse effect on our business or reputation. We may experience disruptions, delays and other difficulties from our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems for our daily operations including customer service, transactions, billing and record keeping. We may experience disruptions, delays or other difficulties from our information technology systems, which may have an adverse effect on our business and adversely impact our customers’ confidence in us. We do not prepare interim financial information on a U.S. GAAP basis. Neither we nor our subsidiaries are required to, and we and our subsidiaries do not, prepare interim financial information on a U.S. GAAP basis. U.S. GAAP differs in significant respects from Korean GAAP, particularly with respect to the establishment of provisions and loan loss allowance. See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Selected Financial Information under Korean GAAP” and “— Reconciliation with Korean GAAP.” As a result, our provision and allowance levels reflected under Korean GAAP in our results as of the end of and for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 may differ significantly from comparable figures under U.S. GAAP for these and future periods. The adoption of the Korean equivalent of International Financial Reporting Standards may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. In March 2007, the Financial Services Commission and the Korea Accounting Institute announced a road map for the adoption of the Korean equivalent of International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, pursuant to which all listed companies in Korea will be required to prepare their annual financial statements under IFRS beginning in 2011. In December 2007, the Korea Accounting Standards Board published the full text of the Korean equivalent of IFRS, or Korean IFRS. However, as the application of Korean IFRS is still voluntary, and as there is not yet a significant body of established practice on which to draw in forming judgments regarding its implementation and application, it is not possible to estimate with any degree of certainty the impact that the adoption of Korean IFRS will have on our financial reporting. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the mandatory adoption of Korean IFRS beginning in 2011 will not adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Risks relating to liquidity and capital management A considerable increase in interest rates could decrease the value of our debt securities portfolio and raise our funding costs while reducing loan demand and the repayment ability of our borrowers, which, as a result, could adversely affect us. Commencing in the second half of 2008, interest rates in Korea have declined to historically low levels as the government has sought to stimulate the economy through active rate-lowering measures. The vast majority of debt securities we hold pay interest at a fixed rate. However, a considerable increase in interest rates in the future, including as part of the Korean government’s “exit strategy” with respect to the economic stimulus measures adopted in response to the global financial crisis, could lead to a decline in the value of the debt securities in our portfolio. A sustained increase in interest rates will also raise our funding costs, while reducing loan demand, especially among consumers. A considerable rise in interest rates may therefore require us to rebalance our assets and liabilities in order to minimize the risk of potential mismatches and maintain our profitability. In addition, rising interest rate levels may adversely affect the Korean economy and the financial condition of our corporate and retail borrowers, including holders of our credit cards, which in turn may lead to a deterioration in our credit portfolio. Since most of our retail and corporate loans bear interest at rates that adjust periodically based on prevailing market rates, a sustained increase in interest rate levels will increase the interest costs of our retail and corporate borrowers and could adversely affect their ability to make payments on their outstanding loans. Our funding is highly dependent on short-term deposits, which dependence may adversely affect our operations. We meet a significant amount of our funding requirements through short-term funding sources, which consist primarily of customer deposits. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 95.3% of our deposits had maturities of one year or less or were payable on demand. In the past, a substantial proportion of our customer deposits have been rolled over upon maturity. We cannot guarantee, however, that depositors will continue to roll over their deposits in the future. In the event that a substantial number of our short-term deposit customers withdraw their funds or fail to roll over their deposits as higher-yielding investment opportunities emerge, our liquidity position could be adversely affected. We may also be required to seek more expensive sources of short-term and long-term funding to finance our operations. See “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial Condition — Liquidity.” We may be required to raise additional capital to maintain our capital adequacy ratios, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Under the capital adequacy requirements of the Financial Services Commission, we, as a bank holding company, are required to maintain a minimum consolidated capital adequacy ratio, which is the ratio of equity capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets on a consolidated Korean GAAP basis, of 8.0%. In addition, pursuant to the capital adequacy requirements of the Financial Services Commission, Kookmin Bank, our banking subsidiary, is required to maintain a minimum Tier I capital adequacy ratio of 4.0% and a combined Tier I and Tier II capital adequacy ratio of 8.0%, on a consolidated Korean GAAP basis. Tier II capital is included in calculating the combined Tier I and Tier II capital adequacy ratio up to 100% of Tier I capital. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated capital adequacy ratio was 13.34%, and Kookmin Bank’s Tier I capital adequacy and its combined Tier I and Tier II capital adequacy ratio was 10.82% and 14.04%, respectively, all of which exceeded the minimum levels required by the Financial Services Commission. However, our capital base and capital adequacy ratios may deteriorate in the future if our results of operations or financial condition deteriorates for any reason, including as a result of a deterioration in the asset quality of our retail loans (including credit card balances) and loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises, or if we are not able to deploy our funding into suitably low-risk assets. If our capital adequacy ratios deteriorate, we may be required to obtain additional capital in order to remain in compliance with the applicable capital adequacy requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain additional capital at any time may be constrained to the extent that banks or other financial institutions in Korea or from other Asian countries are seeking to raise capital at the same time. To the extent that we fail to maintain our capital adequacy ratios in the future, Korean regulatory authorities 26 Table of Contents may impose penalties on us ranging from a warning to suspension or revocation of our banking license. For a description of the capital adequacy requirements of the Financial Services Commission, see “Item 4B. Business Overview — Supervision and Regulation — Principal Regulations Applicable to Financial Holding Companies — Capital Adequacy” and “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial Condition — Capital Adequacy.” We may face increased capital requirements under the new Basel Capital Accord. Beginning on January 1, 2008, the Financial Supervisory Service implemented the new Basel Capital Accord, referred to as Basel II, in Korea, which has substantially affected the way risk is measured among Korean financial institutions, including Kookmin Bank. Building upon the initial Basel Capital Accord of 1988, which focused primarily on credit risk and market risk and on capital adequacy and asset soundness as measures of risk, Basel II expands this approach to contemplate additional areas of risk such as operational risk. In addition, under Basel II, banks are permitted to follow either a standardized approach or an internal ratings-based approach with respect to calculating credit risk capital requirements. Kookmin Bank has voluntarily chosen to establish and follow an internal ratings-based approach, which is more risk-sensitive in assessing its credit risk capital requirements. In December 2007, the Financial Supervisory Service approved Kookmin Bank’s internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, and Kookmin Bank became the first Korean bank permitted to use such internal ratings-based approach. For regulatory reporting purposes, Kookmin Bank has implemented its internal ratings-based approach for credit risk with respect to retail and small and medium-sized enterprise loans and asset-backed securities from January 2008, large corporate loans from June 2008 and retail SOHO loans from December 2008. Kookmin Bank plans to further implement its internal ratings-based approach to other classes of credit risk exposure on a phased rollout basis in 2010 based on consultations with the Financial Supervisory Service and to implement its “Advanced Internal Ratings-based Approach” for credit risk for regulatory reporting purposes in the near future. A standardized approach will be used in measuring credit risk for those classes of exposure for which Kookmin Bank’s internal ratings-based approach has not yet been implemented, as well as for certain classes of exposure (including those to the government, public institutions and other banks) for which the internal ratings-based approach will not be applied. With respect to operational risk, Kookmin Bank implemented a standardized approach beginning in January 2008 and further implemented an “Advanced Measurement Approach” for regulatory reporting purposes beginning in January 2009. While the implementation of Kookmin Bank’s internal ratings-based approach in 2008 has increased its capital adequacy ratio and led to a decrease in its credit risk-related capital requirements as compared to those under its previous approach under the initial Basel Capital Accord of 1988, there can be no assurance that such internal ratings-based approach under Basel II will not require an increase in Kookmin Bank’s credit risk capital requirements in the future, which may require Kookmin Bank to either improve its asset quality or raise additional capital. In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision introduced a new set of measures to supplement Basel II which include, among others, a requirement for higher minimum capital, introduction of a leverage ratio as a supplementary measure to the capital adequacy ratio and flexible capital requirements for different phases of the economic cycle. After further impact assessment, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is expected to implement the new set of measures in 2012. The timing and scope of implementation of such measures in Korea remain uncertain. The implementation of such measures in Korea may have a significant effect on the capital requirements of Korean financial institutions, including us. See “Item 5A. Operating Results — Overview — New Basel Capital Accord” and “Item 5B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financial Condition — Capital Adequacy.” 27 Table of Contents Risks relating to government regulation and policy The Korean government may promote lending and financial support by the Korean financial industry to certain types of borrowers as a matter of policy, which financial institutions, including us, may decide to follow. Through its policies and recommendations, the Korean government has promoted and, as a matter of policy, may continue to attempt to promote lending by the Korean financial industry to particular types of borrowers. For example, the Korean government has in the past provided and may continue to provide policy loans, which encourage lending to particular types of borrowers. It has generally done this by identifying sectors of the economy it wishes to promote and making low-interest funding available to financial institutions that may voluntarily choose to lend to these sectors. The government has in this manner provided policy loans intended to promote mortgage lending to low-income individuals and lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises. All loans or credits we choose to make pursuant to these policy loans would be subject to review in accordance with our credit approval procedures. However, the availability of policy loans may influence us to lend to certain sectors or in a manner in which we otherwise would not in the absence of such loans from the government. In the past, the Korean government has also announced policies under which financial institutions in Korea are encouraged to provide financial support to particular sectors. For example, in light of the deteriorating financial condition and liquidity position of small- and medium-sized enterprises in Korea as a result of the global financial crisis commencing in the second half of 2008 and adverse conditions in the Korean economy affecting consumers, the Korean government introduced measures intended to encourage Korean banks to provide financial support to small- and medium-sized enterprise and retail borrowers. See “— Risks relating to our retail credit portfolio — Future changes in market conditions as well as other factors may lead to increases in delinquency levels of our retail loan portfolio” and “— Risks relating to our small- and medium-sized enterprise loan portfolio — We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and any financial difficulties experienced by these customers may result in a deterioration of our asset quality and have an adverse impact on us.” The Korean government may in the future request financial institutions in Korea, including us, to make investments in or provide other forms of financial support to particular sectors of the Korean economy as a matter of policy, which financial institutions, including us, may decide to accept. We may incur costs or losses as a result of providing such financial support. The Financial Services Commission may impose burdensome measures on us if it deems us or one of our subsidiaries to be financially unsound. If the Financial Services Commission deems our financial condition or the financial condition of our subsidiaries to be unsound, or if we or our subsidiaries fail to meet applicable regulatory standards, such as minimum capital adequacy and liquidity ratios, the Financial Services Commission may order, among other things: • capital increases or reductions; • stock cancellations or consolidations; • transfers of business; • sales of assets; • closures of branch offices; • mergers with other financial institutions; and • suspensions of a part or all of our business operations. If any of these measures are imposed on us by the Financial Services Commission, they could hurt our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the Financial Services Commission orders us to partially or completely reduce our capital, you may lose part or all of your investment. 28 Table of Contents The Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act may intensify competition in the Korean financial industry. In July 2007, the National Assembly of Korea enacted the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, a new law intended to enhance the integration of the Korean capital markets and financial investment products industry, which became effective in February 2009. As a result, Kookmin Bank and other banks in Korea face greater competition in the Korean financial services market from financial investment companies and other non-bank financial institutions. For example, securities companies previously were not permitted to accept deposits other than for purposes of securities investment by customers or provide secondary services in connection with securities investments such as settlement and remittance relating to such deposits. However, under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, financial investment companies, which replaced securities companies, among others, are able to provide such secondary services. Accordingly, Kookmin Bank and other banks in Korea may experience a loss of customer deposits (which in turn may result in a need to seek alternative funding sources and an increase in its funding costs), as well as a decrease in its settlement and remittance service fee income. Risks relating to Korea Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. In addition to conducting test flights of long-range missiles, North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction and from providing luxury goods to North Korea, imposes an asset freeze and travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons program, and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including through inspection of cargo to or from North Korea. In response, North Korea agreed in February 2007 at the six-party talks to shut down and seal the Yongbyon nuclear facility, including the reprocessing facility, and readmit international inspectors to conduct all necessary monitoring and verifications. In April 2009, North Korea launched a long-range rocket over the Pacific Ocean. Korea, Japan and the United States responded that the launch poses a threat to neighboring nations and that it was in violation of the United Nations Security Council resolution adopted in 2006 against nuclear tests by North Korea, and the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution that condemned North Korea for the launch and decided to tighten sanctions against North Korea. Subsequently, North Korea announced that it would permanently pull out of the six party talks and restart its nuclear program, and the International Atomic Energy Agency reported that its inspectors had been ordered to remove surveillance devices and other equipment at the Yongbyon nuclear power plant and to leave North Korea. In May 2009, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted a second nuclear test and test-fired three short-range surface-to-air missiles. In response, the United Nations Security Council unanimously passed a resolution that condemned North Korea for the nuclear test and decided to expand and tighten sanctions against North Korea. In July 2009, North Korea test-fired several additional ballistic missiles into the sea between Korea and Japan. In March 2010, a Korean warship was destroyed by an underwater explosion, killing 29 Table of Contents many of the crewmen on board. In May 2010, the Korean government formally accused North Korea of causing the sinking and announced it would seek United Nations Security Council sanctions against North Korea for the act. North Korea has denied responsibility for the sinking and has threatened retaliation for any attempt to punish it for the act. In addition, there recently has been increased uncertainty with respect to the future of North Korea’s political leadership and concern regarding its implications for economic and political stability in the region. In June 2009, U.S. and Korean officials announced that Kim Jong-il, the North Korean ruler who reportedly suffered a stroke in August 2008, designated his third son, who is reportedly in his twenties, to become his successor. The succession plan, however, remains uncertain. In addition, North Korea’s economy faces severe challenges. For example, in November 2009, the North Korean government redenominated its currency at a ratio of 100 to 1 as part of a currency reform undertaken in an attempt to control inflation and reduce income gaps. In tandem with the currency redenomination, the North Korean government banned the use or possession of foreign currency by its residents and closed down privately run markets, which led to severe inflation and food shortages. Such developments may further aggravate social and political tensions within North Korea. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership crisis, high- level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the market value of our common stock and ADSs. Unfavorable financial and economic developments in Korea may have an adverse effect on us. We are incorporated in Korea, and substantially all of our operations are located in Korea. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to Korea. The economic indicators in Korea in recent years have shown mixed signs of growth and uncertainty, and future growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Recent difficulties affecting the U.S. and global financial sectors, adverse conditions and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices and the general weakness of the U.S. and global economy have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Korean economy. See “Other risks relating to our business — Difficult conditions in the global financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.” Beginning in the second half of 2008, the value of the Won relative to major foreign currencies in general and the U.S. dollar in particular has fluctuated widely. See “Item 3A. Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rates.” A depreciation of the Won increases the cost of imported goods and services and the Won revenue needed by Korean companies to service foreign currency-denominated debt. An appreciation of the Won, on the other hand, causes export products of Korean companies to be less competitive by raising their prices in terms of the relevant foreign currency and reduces the Won value of such export sales. Furthermore, as a result of adverse global and Korean economic conditions, there has been an overall decline and continuing volatility in the stock prices of Korean companies. The Korea Composite Stock Price Index (known as the “KOSPI”) declined from 1,897.1 on December 31, 2007 to 938.8 on October 24, 2008. While the KOSPI has recovered to a significant extent in 2009 and into 2010, there is no guarantee that the stock prices of Korean companies will not decline again in the future. Future declines in the KOSPI and large amounts of sales of Korean securities by foreign investors and subsequent repatriation of the proceeds of such sales may continue to adversely affect the value of the Won, the foreign currency reserves held by financial institutions in Korea, and the ability of Korean companies to raise capital. Any future deterioration of the Korean or global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could hurt Korea’s economy in the future include: • difficulties in the housing and financial sectors in the United States and elsewhere and the resulting adverse effects on the global financial markets; 30 Table of Contents • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen exchange rates or revaluation of the Chinese renminbi), interest rates and stock markets; • adverse conditions in the economies of countries that are important export markets for Korea, such as the United States, Japan and China, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • increasing delinquencies and credit defaults by retail and small- and medium-sized enterprise borrowers; • declines in consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to China) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from Korea to China); • social and labor unrest; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Korean government’s expenditures for fiscal stimulus measures, unemployment compensation and other economic and social programs that, together, would lead to an increased government budget deficit; • financial problems or lack of progress in the restructuring of chaebols, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain chaebols; • the economic impact of any pending or future free trade agreements; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or an outbreak of swine or avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and Korea or the United States. Labor unrest in Korea may adversely affect our operations. Continuing economic difficulties in Korea or increases in corporate reorganizations and bankruptcies could result in layoffs and higher unemployment. Such developments could lead to social unrest and substantially increase government expenditures for unemployment compensation and other costs for social programs. According to statistics from the Korea National Statistical Office, the unemployment rate was 3.7% in 2005 and decreased to 3.5% in 2006 and to 3.2% in 2007 and 2008, but increased to 3.6% in 2009 primarily as a result of adverse economic conditions in Korea. Further increases in unemployment and any resulting labor unrest in the future could adversely affect our operations, as well as the operations of many of our customers and their ability to repay their loans, and could adversely affect the financial condition of Korean companies in general, depressing the price of their securities. These developments would likely have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Risks relating to our common stock and ADSs We or our major stockholders may sell shares of our common stock or ADSs in the future, and these and other sales may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and ADSs and may dilute your investment and relative ownership in us. In September 2009, we issued 30,000,000 new shares of our common stock (including 2,775,585 new shares in the form of ADSs) at a subscription price of W37,250 per share (and US$29.95 per ADS), pursuant to a rights offering to our existing shareholders. We have no current plans for any subsequent offerings of our common stock, ADSs or securities exchangeable for or convertible into such securities. However, it is possible that we may decide to offer or sell such securities in the future. In particular, as of December 31, 2009, Kookmin Bank, our wholly-owned subsidiary, owned 43,322,704 shares of our common stock, or approximately 11.2% of our total issued common stock. We are required under applicable Korean law to dispose of such shares by September 2011. Accordingly, we may decide to offer and sell such shares, in one or more transactions, at any time prior to September 2011. In addition, our major stockholders, the Korean National Pension Service and ING Bank N.V., held approximately 5.2% and 5.0%, respectively, of our total issued common stock as of December 31, 2009, which they may sell at any time. Any future offerings or sales by us of our common stock or ADSs or securities exchangeable for or convertible into such securities, significant sales of our common stock by a major stockholder, or the public perception that an offering or sales may occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and ADSs. Furthermore, any offerings by us in the future of any such securities could have a dilutive impact on your investment and relative ownership interest in us. Ownership of our common stock is restricted under Korean law. Under Korean law, a single stockholder, together with its affiliates, is generally prohibited from owning more than 10.0% of the issued and outstanding shares of voting stock of a bank holding company such as us that controls a nationwide bank, with the exception of certain stockholders that are non-financial group companies, whose applicable limit is 9.0%. See “Item 4B. Business Overview — Supervision and Regulation — Principal Regulations Applicable to Financial Holding Companies — Restrictions on Ownership of a Financial Holding Company.” To the extent that the total number of shares of our common stock (including those represented by ADSs) that a holder and its affiliates own together exceeds the applicable limits, that holder will not be entitled to exercise the voting rights for the excess shares, and the Financial Services Commission may order that holder to dispose of the excess shares within a period of up to six months. Failure to comply with such an order would result in an administrative fine of up to 0.03% of the book value of such shares per day until the date of disposal. A holder of our ADSs may not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless it has withdrawn the underlying shares of our common stock and become our direct stockholder. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business and the merger or consolidation of us with another company, dissenting stockholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights if the depositary refuses to do so on their behalf. Our deposit agreement does not require the depositary to take any action in respect of exercising dissent and appraisal rights. In such a situation, holders of our ADSs must withdraw the underlying common stock from the ADS facility (and incur charges relating to that withdrawal) and become our direct stockholder prior to the record date of the stockholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved, in order to exercise dissent and appraisal rights. 32 Table of Contents A holder of our ADSs may be limited in its ability to deposit or withdraw common stock. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of common stock may deposit such stock with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of ADSs may surrender ADSs to the depositary and receive common stock. However, to the extent that a deposit of common stock exceeds the difference between: (1) the aggregate number of common shares we have deposited or we have consented to allow to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs); and (2) the number of shares of common stock on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common stock will not be accepted for deposit unless (A) our consent with respect to such deposit has been obtained; or (B) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required if the shares of common stock are obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such stock. We have consented, under the terms of the deposit agreement, to any deposit to the extent that, after the deposit, the number of deposited shares does not exceed such number of shares as we determine from time to time (which number shall at no time be less than 100,000,000 shares), unless the deposit would be prohibited by applicable laws or violate our articles of incorporation. We might not consent to the deposit of any additional common stock. As a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common stock, it may not be able to deposit the stock again to obtain ADSs. A holder of our ADSs will not have preemptive rights in some circumstances. The Korean Commercial Code of 1962, as amended, and our articles of incorporation require us, with some exceptions, to offer stockholders the right to subscribe for new shares of our common stock in proportion to their existing shareholding ratio whenever new shares are issued. If we offer any rights to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock or any rights of any other nature, the depositary, after consultation with us, may make the rights available to holders of our ADSs or use reasonable efforts to dispose of the rights on behalf of such holders and make the net proceeds available to such holders. The depositary, however, is not required to make available to holders any rights to purchase any additional shares of our common stock unless it deems that doing so is lawful and feasible and: • a registration statement filed by us under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is in effect with respect to those shares; or • the offering and sale of those shares is exempt from or is not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Similarly, holders of our common stock located in the United States may not exercise any such rights they receive absent registration or an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file any registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, a holder of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in its holdings. If a registration statement is required for a holder of our ADSs to exercise preemptive rights but is not filed by us or is not declared effective, the holder will not be able to exercise its preemptive rights for additional ADSs and it will suffer dilution of its equity interest in us. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or feasible, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case the holder will receive no value for these rights. 33 Table of Contents Dividend payments and the amount a holder of our ADSs may realize upon a sale of its ADSs will be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Won. Our common stock is listed on the KRX KOSPI Market and quoted and traded in Won. Cash dividends, if any, in respect of the shares represented by the ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars, subject to certain conditions. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the amounts a holder of our ADSs will receive from the depositary in respect of dividends, the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds that it would receive upon sale in Korea of the shares of our common stock obtained upon surrender of ADSs and the secondary market price of ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the U.S. dollar value of dividends and sales proceeds received by holders of our common stock. The market value of an investment in our ADSs may fluctuate due to the volatility of the Korean securities market. Our common stock is listed on the KRX KOSPI Market, which has a smaller market capitalization and is more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and many European countries. The market value of ADSs may fluctuate in response to the fluctuation of the trading price of shares of our common stock on the KRX KOSPI Market. The KRX KOSPI Market has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities and the KRX KOSPI Market has prescribed a fixed range in which share prices are permitted to move on a daily basis. The KOSPI declined from 1,897.1 on December 31, 2007 to 938.8 on October 24, 2008. The KOSPI was 1,731.5 on June 22, 2010. There is no guarantee that the stock prices of Korean companies will not decline again in the future. Like other securities markets, including those in developed markets, the Korean securities market has experienced problems including market manipulation, insider trading and settlement failures. The recurrence of these or similar problems could have a material adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of the securities of Korean companies, including our common stock and ADSs, in both the domestic and the international markets. The Korean government has the potential ability to exert substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector business community, and in the past has exerted that influence from time to time. For example, the Korean government has promoted mergers to reduce what it considers excess capacity in a particular industry and has also encouraged private companies to publicly offer their securities. Similar actions in the future could have the effect of depressing or boosting the Korean securities market, whether or not intended to do so. Accordingly, actions by the government, or the perception that such actions are taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause sudden movements in the market prices of the securities of Korean companies in the future, which may affect the market price and liquidity of our common stock and ADSs. If the Korean government deems that emergency circumstances are likely to occur, it may restrict holders of our ADSs and the depositary from converting and remitting dividends and other amounts in U.S. dollars. If the Korean government deems that certain emergency circumstances, including, but not limited to, severe and sudden changes in domestic or overseas economic circumstances, extreme difficulty in stabilizing the balance of payments or implementing currency exchange rate and other macroeconomic policies, have occurred or are likely to occur, it may impose certain restrictions provided for under the Foreign Exchange Transaction Law, including the suspension of payments or requiring prior approval from governmental authorities for any transaction. See “Item 10D. Exchange Controls — General.” A holder of our ADSs may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a corporation with limited liability organized under the laws of Korea. Substantially all of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document reside in Korea, and all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors and officers and other persons named in this document and substantially all of our assets are located in Korea. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process within the United States, or to enforce against them or us in the United States judgments obtained in United States courts based on the 34 Table of Contents civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the United States federal securities laws. 