Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The trading price of our Class A common stock may decline due to these risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are highly dependent on the commercial success of LINZESS in the U.S. for the foreseeable future; we may be unable to attain profitability and positive cash flow from operations. On August 30, 2012, the FDA approved LINZESS as a once-daily treatment for adult men and women suffering from IBS-C or CIC. LINZESS is the first FDA-approved GC-C agonist. We and our U.S. partner, Forest, began commercial sale of LINZESS in the U.S. during December 2012. The commercial success of LINZESS will depend on a number of factors, including: •the effectiveness of LINZESS as a treatment for adult patients with IBS-C and CIC; •the effectiveness of the sales, managed markets and marketing efforts by us and Forest; •the adoption of LINZESS by physicians, which depends on whether physicians view it as a safe and effective treatment for adult patients with IBS-C and CIC; 18 Table of Contents •our success in educating and activating IBS-C and CIC patients to enable them to more effectively communicate their symptoms and treatment history to their physicians; •our ability to both secure adequate reimbursement for and optimize patient access to LINZESS by providing third party payors with a strong value proposition based on the existing burden of illness associated with IBS-C and CIC, and the benefits of LINZESS; •the effectiveness of our and our partners' sales and marketing organizations and our partners' distribution networks; •the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse, or any unfavorable publicity in these areas, associated with LINZESS; and •the development or commercialization of competing products or therapies for the treatment of IBS-C or CIC, or their symptoms. Our revenues from the commercialization of LINZESS are subject to these factors, and therefore may be unpredictable from quarter-to-quarter. Ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenues from LINZESS to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations. Linaclotide may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could limit its commercial potential. The most common adverse reactions in IBS-C and CIC patients in the placebo-controlled trials that supported the U.S. NDA approval of LINZESS were diarrhea, abdominal pain, flatulence and abdominal distension, with diarrhea being the most common. Severe diarrhea was reported in 2% of the linaclotide-treated patients, and the incidence of diarrhea was similar between the IBS-C and CIC populations in these trials. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects, if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, or if we or others detect unexpected safety signals for LINZESS or any products perceived to be similar to LINZESS, then in any of these circumstances: •sales of LINZESS may be modest; •regulatory approvals for linaclotide may be restricted or withdrawn; •we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals; •reformulation of the product, additional nonclinical or clinical studies, changes in labeling or changes to or reapprovals of manufacturing facilities may be required; •our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and •government investigations or lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of LINZESS, increase our expenses and impair our ability to successfully commercialize LINZESS. Furthermore, now that LINZESS is commercially available, it will be used in a wider population and in a less rigorously controlled environment than in clinical studies. As a result, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners, third party payers or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of LINZESS is associated with serious adverse effects, undermining our commercialization efforts. Finally, the FDA-approved label for LINZESS contains a boxed warning about its use in pediatric patients—LINZESS is contraindicated in patients up to 6 years of age and physicians are cautioned to avoid use in patients 6 through 17 years of age. This warning resulted from nonclinical data from studies in young juvenile mice approximately equivalent to human pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. We and Forest have established a nonclinical and clinical post-marketing plan with the FDA. The 19 Table of Contents first step in the plan is to complete additional nonclinical studies to further understand the results of the earlier neonatal mouse study and to understand the tolerability of LINZESS in older juvenile mice. Until these studies are performed, we cannot initiate pediatric studies and may be precluded from ever being able to expand the indication to pediatrics depending on the results from these studies and the view of the FDA on whether the results support studying the safety and efficacy of LINZESS in pediatrics. We rely entirely on contract manufacturers and our collaboration partners to manufacture and distribute linaclotide. If they are unable to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, or experience manufacturing or distribution difficulties, or are unable to manufacture sufficient quantities to meet demand, our commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. We have no internal manufacturing or distribution capabilities. Instead, we rely on a combination of contract manufacturers and our partners to manufacture linaclotide API and final linaclotide drug product, and to distribute that drug product to third party purchasers. We have commercial supply agreements with independent third parties to manufacture the linaclotide API used to support all of our partnered and unpartnered territories. Each of Forest, Almirall and Astellas is responsible for drug product manufacturing of linaclotide and making it into finished goods (including bottling and packaging) for its respective territory, and to distribute the finished goods to wholesalers. We are responsible for drug product manufacturing and finished goods for China as part of our collaboration with AstraZeneca. We also have an agreement with another independent third party to serve as a second source of drug product manufacturing of linaclotide for our partnered territories. Among our drug product manufacturers, only Forest and Almirall have manufactured linaclotide on a commercial scale, and they only recently began commercial manufacture for their respective territories. Each of our linaclotide API and drug product manufacturers must comply with current good manufacturing practices, or GMP, and other stringent regulatory requirements enforced by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation, which occur in addition to our quality release of linaclotide API. Manufacturers of linaclotide may be unable to comply with these GMP requirements and with other regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers' or collaboration partners' compliance with these regulations and standards. Our manufacturers may experience problems with their respective manufacturing and distribution techniques and processes, including for example, quality issues, including product specification and stability failures, quality procedural deviations, improper equipment installation or operation, utility failures, contamination and natural disasters. In addition, our API manufacturers acquire the raw materials necessary to make linaclotide API from a limited number of sources. Any delay or disruption in the availability of these raw materials or a change in raw material suppliers could result in production disruptions, delays or higher costs with consequent adverse effects on us. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in commercial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product and quality assurance testing, and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations and the challenges associated with complex supply chain management. Even if our manufacturers do not experience problems and commercial manufacturing is achieved, their maximum manufacturing capacities may be insufficient to meet commercial demand. Finding alternative manufacturers or adding additional manufacturers could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense. New manufacturers would need to develop and implement the necessary production techniques and processes, which along with their facilities, would need to be inspected and approved by the regulatory authorities in each applicable territory. 20 Table of Contents If our API or drug product manufacturers fail to adhere to applicable GMP or other regulatory requirements or experience manufacturing problems, we will suffer significant consequences, including product seizures or recalls, loss of product approval, fines and sanctions, reputational damage, shipment delays, inventory shortages, inventory write-offs and other product-related charges and increased manufacturing costs. If we experience any of these results, or if our manufacturers' maximum capacities are insufficient to meet demand, we may not be able to successfully commercialize linaclotide. We must work effectively and collaboratively with Forest to market and sell LINZESS in the U.S. in order for it to achieve its maximum commercial potential. We are working closely with Forest to implement our joint commercialization plan for LINZESS. The commercialization plan includes an agreed upon marketing campaign that targets the physicians who see patients who could benefit from LINZESS treatment and the adult men and women who suffer from IBS-C and CIC. It also includes an integrated call plan for our sales forces to optimize the education of specific gastroenterologists and primary care physicians on whom our and Forest's sales representatives call, and the frequency with which the representatives meet with them. We and Forest began implementing this call plan in the middle of December 2012. In order to optimize the commercial potential of LINZESS, we and Forest must execute upon this commercialization plan effectively and efficiently. We and Forest worked with the FDA's Office of Prescription Drug Promotion, or OPDP, to finalize our marketing materials that were deployed upon commercial launch of LINZESS. We also built a high-quality, specialized national sales force to complement Forest's experienced and trained primary care sales force. In order to be effective, we and Forest must effectively use our marketing materials in a compliant way. Similarly, our and Forest's sales teams must promote LINZESS in a coordinated manner to ensure optimum physician access. Now that LINZESS has launched, we and Forest must continually assess and modify our commercialization plan in a coordinated and integrated fashion in order to adapt to the promotional response. In addition, we and Forest must continue to focus and refine our marketing campaign to ensure a clear and understandable physician-patient dialogue around IBS-C, CIC and the potential for LINZESS as an appropriate therapy. Further, we and Forest must provide our sales forces with the highest quality support, guidance and oversight in order for them to continue to effectively promote LINZESS to gastroenterologists and primary care physicians. If we and Forest fail to perform these commercial functions in the highest quality manner, LINZESS will not achieve its maximum commercial potential. We are subject to uncertainty relating to pricing and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable for linaclotide, could hinder or prevent linaclotide's commercial success. Our ability to commercialize LINZESS in the U.S. successfully will depend in part on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. We may not obtain adequate third-party coverage or reimbursement for LINZESS, or we may be required to sell LINZESS at an unprofitable price. We expect that private insurers will consider the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of LINZESS in determining whether to approve reimbursement for LINZESS and at what level. Obtaining these approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not receive approval for reimbursement of LINZESS from private insurers on a timely or satisfactory basis. Our business could also be adversely affected if private insurers, including managed care organizations, the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the indications for which LINZESS will be reimbursed. 21 Table of Contents We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of linaclotide and our future products due to the healthcare reforms discussed below, as well as the trend toward programs aimed at reducing health care costs, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations, the ongoing debates on reducing government spending and additional legislative proposals. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada and the countries of Europe, the pricing and payment of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. To obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products, including linaclotide, to other available therapies. In addition, in countries in which linaclotide is only approved therapy for a particular indication, such as Constella as the only product approved for the symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe IBS-C in adults in Europe, there may be disagreement as to what the most comparable product is, or if there even is one. Further, several European countries have implemented government measures to either freeze or reduce pricing of pharmaceutical products. Many third-party payors and governmental authorities also consider the price for which the same product is being sold in other countries to determine their own pricing and reimbursement strategy, so if linaclotide is priced low or gets limited reimbursement in a particular country, this could result in similarly low pricing and reimbursement in other countries. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable in any country in which reimbursement is sought, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. If the pricing and reimbursement of Constella in the E.U. is low, our royalty revenues from Almirall based on sales of Constella will be adversely affected. In November 2012, the European Commission granted marketing authorization to Constella for the symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe IBS-C in adults. This approval followed the positive recommendation received from the European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use in September 2012. Almirall plans to launch Constella in certain E.U. countries in the first half of 2013. The pricing and reimbursement strategy is a key component of Almirall's commercialization plan for Constella in the E.U. Reimbursement sources are different in each country, and each country may include a combination of distinct potential payers, including private insurance and governmental payers. Countries in the E.U. may restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and control the prices of medicinal products for human use. Our revenues may suffer if Almirall is unable to successfully and timely conclude reimbursement, price approval or funding processes and market Constella in key member states of the E.U., or if coverage and reimbursement for Constella is limited or reduced. If Almirall is not able to obtain coverage, pricing or reimbursement on acceptable terms or at all, or if such terms change in any countries in its territory, Almirall may not be able to, or may decide not to, sell Constella in such countries. Further, Almirall could sell Constella at a low price. Since we receive royalties on net sales of Constella in the E.U., which is correlated directly to the price at which Almirall sells Constella in the E.U., our royalty revenues could be limited should Almirall sell Constella at a low price or elect not to launch in a certain country within the EU. Because we work with partners to develop, manufacture and commercialize linaclotide, we are dependent upon third parties, and our relationships with those third parties, in our efforts to commercialize LINZESS and to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, linaclotide in our other partnered territories. Forest played a significant role in the conduct of the clinical trials for linaclotide and in the subsequent collection and analysis of data, and Forest holds the NDA for LINZESS. In addition, we are commercializing LINZESS in the U.S. with Forest. Forest is responsible for the further development, regulatory approval and commercialization of linaclotide in Canada and Mexico. Almirall 22 Table of Contents holds the marketing authorization for Constella in the E.U. and is responsible for obtaining regulatory approval of linaclotide in the other countries in its territory. Astellas, our partner in Japan and certain other Asian countries, is responsible for completing the clinical programs and obtaining regulatory approval of linaclotide in its territory. We will co-develop and co-commercialize linaclotide in China, Hong Kong and Macau through our collaboration with AstraZeneca. Upon any approval, each of Almirall, Astellas and AstraZeneca is responsible for commercializing linaclotide in its respective territory, and each has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to do so. Each of our partners is responsible for reporting adverse event information from its territory to us. Finally, each of our partners, other than AstraZeneca, is responsible for drug product manufacturing of linaclotide and making it into finished goods (including bottling and packaging) for its respective territory. The integration of our efforts with our partners' efforts is subject to the uncertainty of the markets for pharmaceutical products in each partner's respective territories, and accordingly, these relationships must evolve to meet any new challenges that arise in those regions. These integrated functions may not be carried out effectively and efficiently if we fail to communicate and coordinate with our partners, and vice versa. Our partnering strategy imposes obligations, risks and operational requirements on us as the central node in our global network of partners. If we do not effectively communicate with each partner and ensure that the entire network is making integrated and cohesive decisions focused on the global brand for linaclotide, linaclotide will not achieve its maximum commercial potential. As the holder of the global safety database for linaclotide, we are responsible for coordinating the safety surveillance and adverse event reporting efforts worldwide. If we are unsuccessful in doing so due to poor process, execution, oversight, communication or adjudication, then our and our partner's ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of linaclotide will be at risk. Employees of our partners are not our employees, and we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to linaclotide. If any of our partners fails to devote sufficient time and resources to linaclotide, or if its performance is substandard, it will delay the potential submission or approval of regulatory applications for linaclotide, as well as the manufacturing and commercialization of linaclotide in the particular territory. A material breach by any of our partners of our collaboration or license agreement with such partner, or a significant disagreement between us and a partner, could also delay the regulatory approval and commercialization of linaclotide, potentially lead to costly litigation, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Moreover, although we have non-compete restrictions in place with each of our partners, they may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If any of our partners assists our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. If any of our partners undergoes a change in control or in management, this may adversely affect our collaborative relationship or the timeline and likelihood of successfully launching LINZESS in the U.S. or achieving regulatory approval and commercialization of linaclotide in our other partnered territories. We work jointly and collaboratively with Forest, Almirall, Astellas and AstraZeneca on many aspects of the development, manufacturing and commercialization of linaclotide. In doing so, we have established relationships with several key members of the management teams of Forest, Almirall and Astellas in functional areas such as development, quality, regulatory, drug safety and pharmacovigilance, operations, marketing, sales, field operations and medical science. Although we just recently entered into the collaboration with AstraZeneca for the development and commercialization of linaclotide in China, an important factor in our choosing to partner with AstraZeneca was the depth and quality of their experience in this rapidly growing pharmaceutical market. The success of our collaborations is highly dependent on the resources, efforts and skills of our partners and their key employees. As we begin to launch LINZESS in the U.S., prepare for the launch of Constella in the E.U. and transition linaclotide from development to commercialization in other parts of the world, the 23 Table of Contents drug's success becomes more dependent on us maintaining highly collaborative and well aligned partnerships. If a partner undergoes a change of control or a change of management, we will need to reestablish many of these relationships, and we will need to regain alignment of our development and commercialization strategy for linaclotide. Given the inherent uncertainty and disruption that arises in a change of control, we cannot be sure that we would be able to successfully execute these courses of action. Finally, any change of control or in management may result in a reprioritization of linaclotide within such partner's portfolio, or such partner may fail to maintain the financial or other resources necessary to continue supporting its portion of the development, manufacturing or commercialization of linaclotide. If any of our partners undergoes a change of control and the acquirer either is unable to perform such partner's obligations under its collaboration or license agreement with us or has a product that competes with linaclotide that such acquirer does not divest, we have the right to terminate the collaboration or license agreement and reacquire that partner's rights with respect to linaclotide. If we elect to exercise these rights in such circumstances, we will need to either establish the capability to develop, manufacture and commercialize linaclotide in that partnered territory on our own or we will need to establish a relationship with a new partner. We have assembled a team of specialists in manufacturing, quality, sales, marketing, payor, pricing and field operation, and specialized medical scientists, who represent the functional areas necessary for a successful commercial launch of a high potential, gastrointestinal therapy and who support the commercialization of LINZESS in the U.S. If Forest was subject to a change of control that allowed us to continue LINZESS's commercialization in the U.S. on our own, and we chose to do so, we would need to enhance each of these functional aspects to replace the capabilities that Forest was previously providing to the collaboration. Any such transition might result in a period of reduced efficiency or performance by our operations and commercialization teams, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize LINZESS. Although many members of our global operations, commercial and medical affairs teams have strategic oversight of, and a certain level of involvement in, their functional areas globally, we do not have corresponding operational capabilities in these areas outside of the U.S. If Forest, Almirall, Astellas or AstraZeneca was subject to a change of control that allowed us to continue linaclotide's development or commercialization anywhere outside of the U.S. on our own, and we chose to do so rather than establishing a relationship with a new partner, we would need to build operational capabilities in the relevant territory. In any of these situations, the timeline and likelihood of achieving regulatory approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of linaclotide could be negatively impacted. Even though LINZESS has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of adults with IBS-C or CIC, it faces future post-approval development and regulatory requirements, which will present additional challenges. On August 30, 2012, the FDA approved LINZESS as a once-daily treatment for adult men and women suffering from IBS-C or CIC. LINZESS will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. LINZESS is contraindicated in pediatric patients up to 6 years of age based on nonclinical data from studies in neonatal mice approximately equivalent to human pediatric patients less than 2 years of age. Physicians are also instructed to avoid the use of LINZESS in pediatric patients 6 through 17 years of age based on this nonclinical data and the lack of clinical safety and efficacy data in pediatric patients. We and Forest have established a nonclinical and clinical post-marketing plan with the FDA to understand LINZESS's safety and efficacy in pediatric patients. The first nonclinical studies are to further understand the results of the neonatal mouse study and to understand the tolerability of LINZESS in older juvenile mice. We expect these nonclinical studies to be complete in 2013. We and Forest are also working with the FDA on a plan for clinical pediatric studies, which are contingent on the outcome of the nonclinical post marketing requirements. 24 Table of Contents We and Forest have also committed to certain nonclinical and clinical studies aimed at understanding: (a) whether orally administered linaclotide can be detected in breast milk, (b) the potential for antibodies to be developed to linaclotide, and if so, (c) whether antibodies specific for linaclotide could have any therapeutic or safety implications. We expect to complete these studies over the next three to five years. These post-approval requirements will impose burdens and costs on us. Failure to complete the required studies and meet our other post-approval commitments would lead to negative regulatory action at the FDA, which could include withdrawal of regulatory approval of LINZESS for the treatment of adults with IBS-C or CIC. Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with GMP regulations. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with a facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or the manufacturer, including requiring implementation of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy program, withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our partners or the manufacturing facilities for LINZESS fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters or untitled letters; •impose civil or criminal penalties; •suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; •suspend any ongoing clinical trials; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us; •impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or •seize or detain products or require us to initiate a product recall. Even though LINZESS has been approved for marketing in the U.S. and Constella has been approved for marketing in the E.U., we or our collaborators may never receive approval to commercialize linaclotide in the other parts of the world. We have out-licensed the rights to develop and commercialize linaclotide in Canada and Mexico to Forest, in Europe to Almirall, and in Japan and certain other Asian countries to Astellas, and we will co-develop and co-commercialize linaclotide in China, Hong Kong and Macau with AstraZeneca. In the future, we may seek to commercialize linaclotide in foreign countries outside of these countries with other parties or by ourselves. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we or our partners must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other jurisdictions regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve product testing and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the U.S. and the E.U. Potential risks include that the regulatory authorities: •may not deem linaclotide safe and effective; •may not find the data from nonclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval; •may not approve of manufacturing processes and facilities; •may not approve linaclotide for any or all indications for which approval is sought; •may require significant warnings or restrictions on use to the product label for linaclotide; or 25 Table of Contents •may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Regulatory approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory processes in others. If linaclotide is not approved for all indications or with the label requested, this would limit the uses of linaclotide and have an adverse effect on its commercial potential or require costly post-marketing studies. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if claims brought against us are successful, we could incur substantial liabilities. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of marketed products expose us to product liability claims. If we do not successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for approved products; •impairment of our business reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •initiation of investigations by regulators; •litigation costs; •distraction of management's attention from our primary business; •substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; •loss of revenues; and •the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for the commercial sale of LINZESS and for the clinical trials of our product candidates which is subject to industry-standard terms, conditions and exclusions. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses associated with claims. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We may face competition in the IBS-C and CIC marketplace, and new products may emerge that provide different or better alternatives for treatment of gastrointestinal conditions. Linaclotide will compete globally with certain prescription therapies and over the counter products for the treatment of IBS-C and CIC, or their associated symptoms. The availability of prescription competitors and over the counter products for gastrointestinal conditions could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for linaclotide unless we are able to differentiate linaclotide on the basis of its actual or perceived benefits. New developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and medical technology industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render linaclotide obsolete or noncompetitive. We believe other companies are developing products which could compete with linaclotide, should they be approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Currently, there are compounds in late 26 Table of Contents stage development and other potential competitors are in earlier stages of development for the treatment of patients with either IBS-C or CIC. If our potential competitors are successful in completing drug development for their drug candidates and obtain approval from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, they could limit the demand for linaclotide. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than us. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances made in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these fields. We will incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting any "off-label" use of LINZESS. Physicians are permitted to prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies. Such "off-label" uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do restrict communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies are not permitted to promote drugs for off-label uses. Accordingly, we may not promote LINZESS in the U.S. for use in any indications other than IBS-C or CIC or in any patient populations other than adult men and women. The FDA and other regulatory and enforcement authorities actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses will be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading, and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products. We intend to engage in medical education activities and communicate with healthcare providers in compliance with all applicable laws, regulatory guidance and industry best practices. Although we have put together a robust compliance program designed to ensure that all such activities are performed in a legal and compliant manner, LINZESS is our first commercial product, so we are now just beginning to utilize the program in connection with commercialization activities. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. We will be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations include: •federal healthcare program anti-kickback laws, which prohibit, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers; 27 Table of Contents •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; •the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of drug samples; •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts; •the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity; and •the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which was passed as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, and similar state laws in certain states, that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts, the provision of samples and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professional and health care organizations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any governmental regulations that apply to us, we will be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. In preparation for the commercial launch of LINZESS, we assembled an experienced compliance team who compiled a program based on industry best practices that is designed to ensure that our commercialization of LINZESS complies with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. We also hire, manage and incentivize our employees around a culture of compliance, trust, respect and ownership. Our program is relatively new and the requirements in this area are constantly evolving, we cannot be certain that our program will eliminate all areas of potential exposure. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, fraud and reporting laws may prove costly. Healthcare reform and other governmental and private payor initiatives may have an adverse effect upon, and could prevent, our product candidates' commercial success. The U.S. government and individual states are aggressively pursuing healthcare reform, as evidenced by the passing of the Patient Protection and Affordable Healthcare Act, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. These healthcare reform laws contain several cost containment measures that could adversely affect our future revenue, including, for example, increased drug rebates under Medicaid for brand name prescription drugs, extension of Medicaid rebates to Medicaid managed care plans, and extension of so-called 340B discounted pricing on 28 Table of Contents pharmaceuticals sold to certain health care providers. Additional provisions of the health care reform laws that may negatively affect our future revenue and prospects for profitability include the assessment of an annual fee based on our proportionate share of sales of brand name prescription drugs to certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as mandatory discounts on pharmaceuticals sold to certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries. In addition to governmental efforts in the U.S., foreign jurisdictions as well as private health insurers and managed care plans are likely to continue challenging manufacturers' ability to obtain reimbursement, as well as the level of reimbursement, for pharmaceuticals and other healthcare related products and services. These cost-control initiatives could significantly decrease the available coverage and the price we might establish for linaclotide and our other potential products, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 also provides the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. We and Forest have established a nonclinical and clinical post-marketing plan with the FDA to understand LINZESS's efficacy and safety in pediatrics. The FDA's exercise of this authority will result in increased development-related costs following LINZESS's commercial launch for the treatment of adult men and women suffering from IBS-C or CIC, and could result in potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of LINZESS, even in its approved indications and patient populations. In pursuing our growth strategy, we will incur a variety of costs and may devote resources to potential opportunities that are never completed or for which we never receive the benefit. Our failure to successfully discover, acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products would impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to explore further linaclotide development opportunities, and to develop and market additional products and product candidates. We are exploring development opportunities to strengthen the clinical profile of LINZESS within its indicated population and to expand the product label for additional patient populations and indications, and we are exploring the potential for linaclotide-based combination products. These development efforts may fail or may not increase the revenues that we generate from LINZESS based on the currently-approved product label. Furthermore, they may result in adverse events in certain patient populations that are then attributed to the currently approved patient population, which may result in adverse regulatory action at the FDA or in other countries, and therefore our revenues from linaclotide may be materially harmed. We are pursuing various other programs through our pipeline. We may spend several years completing our development of any particular current or future internal product candidate, and failure can occur at any stage. The product candidates to which we allocate our resources may not end up being successful. Our business depends entirely on the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select, discover and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. 29 Table of Contents The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: •exposure to unknown liabilities; •disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; •incurrence of substantial debt, dilutive issuances of securities or depletion of cash to pay for acquisitions; •higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; •difficulty in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; •increased amortization expenses; •impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and •inability to motivate key employees of any acquired businesses. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Delays in the completion of clinical testing of any of our product candidates could result in increased costs and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues. Delays in the completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to: •obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; •manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials; •obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the treatment of similar conditions; and 30 Table of Contents •maintaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, an institutional review board overseeing the clinical trial at a clinical trial site (with respect to that site), the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: •failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the study protocols; •inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; •unforeseen safety issues; or •lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur, and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Each protocol amendment requires institutional review board review and approval, which may adversely impact the costs, timing or successful completion of the associated clinical trials. If we experience delays in completion, or if we terminate any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidate may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we lose any of our current management team or if we are unable to attract and motivate key personnel. We may not be able to attract or motivate qualified management and scientific, clinical, operations and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the greater-Boston area. If we are not able to attract and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we will experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives. We are highly dependent on the drug discovery, development, regulatory, commercial and financial expertise of our management, particularly Peter M. Hecht, Ph.D., our chief executive officer; Mark G. Currie, Ph.D., our senior vice president, chief scientific officer and president of research and development; Michael J. Higgins, our senior vice president, chief operating officer and chief financial officer; and Thomas A. McCourt, our senior vice president, marketing and sales and chief commercial officer. If we lose any members of our management team in the future, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. In addition to the competition for personnel, the Boston area in particular is characterized by a high cost of living. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment efforts. We also have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our product development, clinical strategies and our global supply chain plans, as well as sales and marketing advisors who have assisted us in our commercialization strategy and brand plan for linaclotide. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development and commercialization of products that may compete with ours. 31 Table of Contents Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of LINZESS patients, clinical trial participants and employees. Similarly, our business partners and third party providers possess certain of our sensitive data. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information, including our data being breached at our business partners or third-party providers, could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation which could adversely affect our business. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, city and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures we use for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Limitations on our patent rights relating to our product candidates may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product candidates, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The strength of patents in the pharmaceutical industry involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. Patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, we cannot be certain that we were the first to conceive inventions covered by our patents and pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, we cannot be certain that our patent applications will be granted, that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, recently granted a third party request for inter partes reexamination of our U.S. Patent 7,704,947, which covers a group of peptides that includes LINZESS and related molecules. We cannot be certain that the validity of this patent will be upheld until the reexamination process is completed by the USPTO. This patent is one of several issued patents and pending applications in the U.S. related to LINZESS, including a LINZESS composition of matter and methods of use patent (U.S. Patent 7,304,036) as well as additional patents and applications covering processes for making LINZESS, formulations, and dosing regimens. Although none of our other issued patents currently is subject to a patent reexamination, we 32 Table of Contents cannot guarantee that they will not be subject to reexamination or review by the USPTO in the future. If any or all of our LINZESS-related patents were invalidated, we would still have at least five years of marketing exclusivity under the Hatch-Waxman Act from FDA approval of LINZESS. We believe that each of the patents in our LINZESS patent portfolio was rightfully issued and the portfolio gives us sufficient freedom to operate, however, if any of our present or future patents is invalidated, this could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, particularly for the period beyond five years following marketing approval. Furthermore, the America Invents Act, which was signed into law in 2012, makes several major changes in the U.S. patent statutes over the course of the next few years. These changes will permit third parties to challenge our patents more easily and will create uncertainty with respect to the interpretation and practice of U.S. patent law for the foreseeable future. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. It is possible that technology relevant to our business will be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees and consultants that are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations. Further, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the U.S., and, therefore, we may encounter problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property in certain foreign jurisdictions. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success will depend upon our ability, and the ability of our collaborators, to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our potential products may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. There may be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware that may be infringed by LINZESS or our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications which may later result in issued patents that LINZESS or our product candidates may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, litigation by third parties alleging that LINZESS or our product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. If LINZESS or one of our product candidates is found to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we or our collaborators could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize the applicable product candidate unless we obtain a license to the intellectual property rights. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the counter-party could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, pending a trial on the merits, which may not occur for several years. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our 33 Table of Contents collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: •infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management's attention from our core business; •substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party's rights, and, if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner's attorneys' fees; •a court prohibiting us from selling our product unless the third party licenses its rights to us, which it is not required to do; •if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees or grant cross-licenses to our intellectual property rights; and •redesigning our products so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or may assert our patents are invalid. To counter ongoing or potential infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Litigation with generic manufacturers has become increasingly common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. In addition, in an infringement or invalidity proceeding, a court or patent administrative body may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our collaborators. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our collaborators, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceeding or developments. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. In recent years, we have focused primarily on developing, manufacturing and commercializing linaclotide. Although we launched LINZESS in the U.S. in December 2012, we believe that it will take us some time to attain profitability and positive cash flow from operations. We have financed our 34 Table of Contents operations to date primarily through the issuance of equity, our collaboration and license arrangements and the recent issuance of debt securities related to the sales of LINZESS in the U.S., and we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. We incurred net losses attributable to Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of approximately $72.6 million, $64.9 million and $53.0 million in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $505.0 million. Our prior losses and expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. We expect our expenses to increase in connection with our efforts to commercialize linaclotide and our research and development of our other product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, or if, we will become profitable. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We recently completed the offering of $175.0 million in debt securities related to the sales of LINZESS in the U.S. However, marketing and selling a primary care drug, purchasing commercial quantities of pharmaceutical products, developing product candidates and conducting clinical trials are expensive and uncertain. Circumstances, our strategic imperatives, or opportunities to create or acquire new programs could require us to, or we may choose to, seek to raise additional funds. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •the level of underlying demand for LINZESS by prescribers and patients in the U.S. and for Constella by prescribers and patients in the E.U.; •the costs associated with commercializing LINZESS in the U.S.; •the costs of maintaining and expanding our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; •the regulatory approval of linaclotide in other countries in the world and the timing of commercial launches in those countries, as well as the associated development and commercial milestones and royalties; •the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other product development programs, including our post-approval nonclinical and clinical studies of LINZESS in pediatrics and our investment to strengthen the clinical profile of LINZESS within its indicated population and to expand the product label for additional patient populations and indications, as well as the potential for linaclotide-based combination products; •the costs and timing of in-licensing additional product candidates or acquiring other complementary companies; •the status, terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing, co-commercialization or other arrangements; and •the timing of any regulatory approvals of our product candidates. Additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of our commercialization efforts or reduce or eliminate one or more of our development programs. 35 Table of Contents Our ability to pay principal of and interest on our recently-issued debt securities will depend in part on the receipt of payments from Forest under the collaboration agreement that are equal to or in excess of our quarterly payment obligations on each payment date. In January 2013, we issued $175.0 million in debt securities bearing an annual interest rate of 11%. Interest and principal on these securities will be payable commencing June 15, 2013 and March 15, 2014, respectively. After the interest-only period, we will make quarterly payments equal to the greater of (i) 7.5% of net sales of LINZESS in the U.S. for the preceding quarter and (ii) accrued and unpaid interest on the debt securities. If the cash flows derived from the net quarterly payments that we receive from Forest under the collaboration agreement are insufficient on any particular payment date to fund the quarterly interest payment, at a minimum, we will be obligated to pay the amounts of such shortfall out of our general funds. We expect that for the next few years, at a minimum, the net quarterly payments from Forest will be our primary source of cash flow from operations. The determination of whether Forest will be obligated to make a net quarterly payment to us in respect of a particular quarterly period is a function of the revenue generated by LINZESS in the U.S. as well as the development, manufacturing and commercialization expenses incurred by each of us and Forest under the collaboration agreement. Accordingly, since we believe that it will take us some time to attain profitability and positive cash flow from operations, we cannot guarantee that (i) we will have the available funds to fund the quarterly interest payment, at a minimum, in the event that there is a deficiency in the net quarterly payment received from Forest, (ii) there will be a net quarterly payment from Forest at all or (iii) we are not also required to make a true-up payment to Forest under the collaboration agreement, in each case, in respect of a particular quarterly period. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition or restrict our future operations. As of January 4, 2013, we had total indebtedness of approximately $175.0 million. We chose to issue debt securities based on the additional strategic optionality that this creates for us, and the limited restrictions that these debt securities place on our ability to run our business compared to other potential available financing transactions. However, our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; •requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, corporate transactions and other general corporate purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; •limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; •placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and •increasing our cost of borrowing. Although we are not as restricted under these debt securities as we might have been under a more traditional secured credit facility provided by a bank, the indenture governing our debt securities 36 Table of Contents contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in certain acts, including restrictions on our ability to: •amend our collaboration agreement with Forest in a way that would have a material adverse effect on the noteholders rights, or terminate the collaboration agreement with respect to the U.S.; •transfer our rights to commercialize the product under our collaboration agreement with Forest; and •incur certain liens. Upon a breach of the covenants under our indenture, the noteholders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the outstanding debt securities to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the noteholders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt securities. If the noteholders under the indenture accelerate the repayment of the debt securities, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient assets to repay them. If we breach our covenants under our indenture and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required noteholders. If this occurs we would be in default under our indenture, the noteholders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to frequent fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: •the level of underlying demand for LINZESS in the U.S. and wholesalers' buying patterns; •the costs associated with launching and commercializing LINZESS in the U.S.; •the achievement and timing of milestone payments under our existing collaboration and license agreements; •our execution of any collaboration, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; •variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs; •addition or termination of clinical trials; •regulatory developments affecting our product candidates; and •any material lawsuit in which we may become involved. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments is limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and it is possible that certain transactions or a combination of certain transactions may result in material additional limitations on our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. 37 Table of Contents These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built-in losses is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. We may be unable to offset our taxable income with losses, or our tax liability with credits, before such losses and credits expire and therefore would incur larger federal income tax liability. We have completed several financings since our inception which may have resulted in a change in control as defined by Section 382, or could result in a change in control in the future. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. These provisions include the following: •Our certificate of incorporation provides for a dual class common stock structure. As a result of this structure, holders of our Class B common stock have significant influence over certain matters requiring stockholder approval, including a merger involving Ironwood, a sale of substantially all Ironwood assets and a dissolution or liquidation of Ironwood. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating a change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. •Our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board are elected at one time. This staggered board structure prevents stockholders from replacing the entire board at a single stockholders' meeting. •Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. •Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock. The ability to authorize preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. •Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting. Furthermore, stockholders may only remove a member of our board of directors for cause. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect such acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. •Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are not able to take certain actions outside of a stockholders' meeting. •Special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are not able to call a special meeting. •A majority of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock are required to amend our certificate of incorporation and a super-majority (80%) of the outstanding shares of common 38 Table of Contents stock are required to amend our bylaws, which make it more difficult to change the provisions described above. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors. The concentration of voting control on certain corporate matters with our pre-IPO stockholders will limit your ability to influence such matters. Because of our dual class common stock structure, the holders of our Class B common stock, who consist of our pre-IPO investors (and their affiliates), founders, directors, executives and certain of our employees, will continue to be able to control certain corporate matters listed below if any such matter is submitted to our stockholders for approval even if they come to own less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, the holders of our Class A common stock own approximately 73% and the holders of our Class B common stock own approximately 27% of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, combined. However, because of our dual class common stock structure these holders of our Class A common stock have approximately 21% and holders of our Class B common stock have approximately 79% of the total votes on each of the matters identified in the list below. This concentrated control of our Class B common stockholders limits the ability of the Class A common stockholders to influence those corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that many of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Each share of Class A common stock and each share of Class B common stock has one vote per share on all matters except for the following matters, for which each share of our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and each share of our Class A common stock has one vote per share: •adoption of a merger or consolidation agreement involving Ironwood; •a sale of all or substantially all of Ironwood's assets; •a dissolution or liquidation of Ironwood; and •every matter, if and when any individual, entity or "group" (as that term is used in Regulation 13D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) has, or has publicly disclosed (through a press release or a filing with the SEC) an intent to have, beneficial ownership of 30% or more of the number of outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, combined. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to meet our reporting obligations and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only 39 Table of Contents reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. If we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, or we discover areas that need improvement in the future, these shortcomings could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results, and the price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected. If we cannot conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure to comply with reporting requirements could also subject us to sanctions and/or investigations by the SEC, The NASDAQ Stock Market or other regulatory authorities. We expect that the price of our Class A common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile due to many factors, including: •the commercial performance of linaclotide in the U.S. or in Europe; •any third-party coverage and reimbursement policies for linaclotide; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; •developments, litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; •announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; •announcements concerning product development results, including clinical trial results, or intellectual property rights of others; •actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; •deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; •sales of additional shares of our common stock; •additions or departures of key personnel; •developments concerning current or future strategic collaborations; and •discussion of us or our stock price in the financial or scientific press or in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors" could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 