Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The trading price of our Class A common stock may decline due to these risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are largely dependent on the success of linaclotide, which may never receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our lead product candidate, linaclotide, recently completed the clinical efficacy portion of its development program. Our other drug candidates are in earlier stages of development. Our business depends entirely on the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. We currently generate no revenue from sales, and we may never be able to develop marketable drugs. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, and regulations differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the U.S. until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA, or in any foreign jurisdictions until we receive the requisite approvals from such jurisdictions. We have not yet submitted an NDA or foreign equivalent in any jurisdiction. Obtaining regulatory approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities also have substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. Potential risks include those that the regulatory authorities: •may not deem linaclotide or another product candidate safe and effective; •may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval; •may not approve of manufacturing processes and facilities; •may not approve linaclotide for both IBS-C and CC indications; •may require significant warnings or restrictions on use to the product label for linaclotide or another product candidate; or •may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Linaclotide is our GC-C agonist that is currently in Phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of IBS-C and CC. In September and November 2010, we announced the positive top-line results from each of the two Phase 3 clinical trials assessing the safety and efficacy of linaclotide in patients with IBS-C, and in November 2009, we announced that we achieved positive results in each of our Phase 3 CC trials. Even though linaclotide met the endpoints of the CC trials and the top-line results indicate that it met the endpoints of the IBS-C trials, it may not be approved for either or both indications or for any other indication for which we seek approval from the FDA. Further, the FDA and any foreign regulatory authority may disagree with our trial design or our interpretation of data from clinical trials, or they may change the requirements for approval even after they have reviewed and commented on the design for our clinical trials. The FDA and any foreign regulatory authority might also approve linaclotide for fewer or more limited indications than we 19 Table of Contents request, or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-approval clinical trials. In addition, the FDA and any foreign regulatory authority may not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of linaclotide. Any failure to obtain regulatory approval of linaclotide would significantly limit our ability to generate revenues, and any failure to obtain such approval for all of the indications and labeling claims we deem desirable could reduce our potential revenue. Linaclotide may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent its regulatory approval or limit its commercial potential. Undesirable side effects caused by linaclotide could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities and potential products liability claims. Any serious adverse events deemed to be caused by linaclotide could have a material adverse effect upon the linaclotide program and our business as a whole. The most common adverse event to date in the clinical studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of linaclotide has been diarrhea. For the most part, the diarrhea has been considered mild or moderate by the patients. In the four Phase 3 clinical trials, our top-line results indicate that diarrhea was seen in 14% to 20% of linaclotide-treated patients, and was the most common adverse event that led to study discontinuation in 3% to 6% of linaclotide-treated patients. In our clinical development program, there have been no serious adverse events in any patients receiving linaclotide treatment that were deemed by a study investigator or us to be "definitely related" or "probably related" to linaclotide treatment, nor have there been any deaths in any patients receiving linaclotide treatment that were deemed by a study investigator or us to be related to linaclotide treatment. If linaclotide receives marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: •regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of linaclotide; •regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label; •we may be required to create a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients; •we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and •our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of linaclotide and could substantially increase commercialization costs. If we or our collaboration partners and other third parties upon whom we rely to produce linaclotide are unable to satisfy FDA quality standards and related regulatory requirements, experience manufacturing difficulties, or are unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates, our development and commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. We do not currently possess internal manufacturing capacity. We currently utilize the services of contract manufacturers to manufacture our clinical supplies. With respect to the manufacturing of linaclotide, we (along with our U.S. collaboration partner, Forest) entered into a commercial supply agreement with PolyPeptide Laboratories, Inc. and Polypeptide Laboratories (SWEDEN) AB for the manufacture of the linaclotide API that will be used to obtain regulatory approval of linaclotide in the U.S., Canada and/or Mexico, and, pending any such approval, that will be incorporated into the finished product for commercialization in those countries. In addition, we have established development 20 Table of Contents agreements with multiple peptide manufacturers and continue to pursue commercial supply agreements with these manufacturers for the linaclotide API. We may not be able to enter into agreements with such other manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we enter into a commercial supply agreement with another manufacturer but then change or add manufacturers, the regulatory authorities in each territory must approve these manufacturers' facilities and processes prior to use, which would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturers would have to be educated in or independently develop the processes necessary for the production of linaclotide. While we believe we will have arrangements to produce a sufficient amount of API, if we lose a manufacturer, it would take us a substantial amount of time to identify and develop a relationship with an alternative manufacturer. These third party manufacturers acquire the raw materials for the API from a limited number of sources. Any curtailment in the availability of these raw materials could result in production or other delays with consequent adverse effects on us. In addition, because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products, changes in raw material suppliers may result in production delays or higher raw material costs. Upon production of our API, each of our collaboration partners, Forest, Almirall and Astellas, is responsible for completing the manufacturing process of linaclotide in its respective territory, which consists of finishing and packaging linaclotide into capsules. In addition, we are pursuing arrangements with additional manufacturers to complete the manufacturing process of linaclotide in the parts of the world outside of our partnered territories, and for the purpose of introducing redundancy into our supply chain in case of a manufacturing shortage or supply interruption. We will be dependent upon the success of our partners, and these other manufacturers, provided that we are successful in developing supply arrangements with the other manufacturers, in producing drug product for commercial sale. No party has experience producing finished drug product for linaclotide at commercial scale, and such efforts may fail. Traditionally, peptide manufacturing is costly and time consuming, resulting in low yields and poor stability. We cannot give any assurances that we will overcome these issues when scaling up manufacturing for linaclotide. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations, and the challenges associated with complex supply chain management. We, together with our partners Forest and Almirall, are currently evaluating the stability of different batch sizes of linaclotide at various points in time. If we are unable to demonstrate stability in accordance with commercial requirements, or if our manufacturers were to encounter difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations to us, our ability to obtain FDA or MAA approval and market linaclotide would be jeopardized. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with conducting our clinical trials and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or to terminate a trial. Each of the linaclotide manufacturers would need to comply with GMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of linaclotide may be unable to comply with these GMP requirements and with other regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers' or collaboration partners' compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the quality of linaclotide is compromised due to a 21 Table of Contents manufacturers' or collaboration partners' failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize linaclotide, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of linaclotide or our other product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize linaclotide or our other product candidates. Furthermore, if our manufacturers or collaboration partners fail to deliver the required commercial quantities on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet demand for any approved products and would lose potential revenues. Because we work with partners to develop, manufacture and promote linaclotide, we are dependent upon third parties in our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for, and to commercialize, linaclotide. We co-develop and plan to co-promote linaclotide in the U.S. with Forest. Forest plays a significant role in the conduct of the clinical trials for linaclotide and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Each of Almirall, our European partner, and Astellas, our partner in certain Asian countries, is responsible for obtaining regulatory approval of linaclotide in its respective territory. In addition, each of our partners is responsible for completing the manufacturing process of linaclotide upon production of the API, which consists of finishing and packaging linaclotide into capsules. Employees of our partners are not our employees, and we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to linaclotide. If any of our partners fails to devote sufficient time and resources to linaclotide, or if its performance is substandard, it will delay the potential approval of regulatory applications for linaclotide as well as the commercialization and manufacturing of linaclotide. A material breach by any of our partners of our collaboration agreement with such partner could also delay regulatory approval and commercialization of linaclotide. In addition, the execution of our clinical development program for linaclotide, and the compilation and analysis of the data produced from the clinical trials, requires coordination among various parties. Further, each of our partners is responsible for reporting adverse event information to us. These functions may not be carried out effectively and efficiently if we fail to communicate and coordinate with our partners, and vice versa. Moreover, although we have non-compete restrictions in place with each of our partners, they may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If any of our partners assists our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. Even if linaclotide receives regulatory approval, it may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. We anticipate submitting an NDA for linaclotide with the FDA in the third quarter of 2011. However, even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. Linaclotide and our other product candidates would also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with GMP regulations. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or the manufacturer, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: •issue warning letters or untitled letters; •impose civil or criminal penalties; 22 Table of Contents •suspend regulatory approval; •suspend any ongoing clinical trials; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us; •impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or •seize or detain products or require us to initiate a product recall. Even if linaclotide receives regulatory approval in the U.S., we or our collaborators may never receive approval to commercialize linaclotide outside of the U.S. We have out-licensed the European rights to develop and commercialize linaclotide to Almirall, and we have out-licensed the same rights in certain Asian countries to Astellas. In the future, we may seek to commercialize linaclotide in foreign countries outside of Europe and those Asian countries with other parties or by ourselves. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other jurisdictions regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve product testing and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the U.S. Almirall anticipates submitting an MAA with the EMA in the second half of 2011. The time required to obtain approval in other jurisdictions, including the E.U., might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory processes in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions or any delay or setback in obtaining such approvals could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that linaclotide may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of linaclotide and have an adverse effect on its commercial potential or require costly post-marketing studies. Linaclotide may not be widely adopted by patients, payors or healthcare providers, which would adversely impact our potential profitability and future business prospects. The commercial success of linaclotide depends upon its level of market adoption by patients, payors and healthcare providers. If linaclotide does not achieve an adequate level of market adoption for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be severely adversely impacted. The degree of market acceptance of linaclotide depends on a number of factors, including: •our ability to demonstrate to the medical community, particularly general practitioners, internists and gastrointestinal specialists who may purchase or prescribe linaclotide, the clinical efficacy and safety of linaclotide as the prescription product of choice for patients who suffer from IBS-C or CC; •the effectiveness of our sales and marketing organizations and our distribution network; •the ability of physicians and other providers to be adequately reimbursed for linaclotide in a timely manner from government and private payors; and •the actual or perceived safety profile of linaclotide, particularly if unanticipated adverse events related to linaclotide treatment arise and create safety concerns among potential patients or prescribers. 23 Table of Contents We may face competition in the IBS-C and CC marketplace for linaclotide, and new products may emerge that provide different or better alternatives for treatment of gastrointestinal conditions. If approved and commercialized, linaclotide will compete globally with certain prescription therapies and over the counter products for the treatment of IBS-C and CC, or certain associated symptoms. The availability of prescription competitors and over the counter products for gastrointestinal conditions could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for linaclotide unless we are able to differentiate linaclotide on the basis of its clinical benefits in our clinical trials. New developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical and medical technology industries at a rapid pace. These developments may render linaclotide obsolete or noncompetitive. We believe other companies are developing products which could compete with linaclotide, should they be approved by the FDA. Currently, there are a few compounds in late stage development and other potential competitors are in earlier stages of development for the treatment of patients with either IBS-C or CC. If our potential competitors are successful in completing drug development for their drug candidates and obtain approval from the FDA, they could limit the demand for linaclotide. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than us. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances made in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these fields. We have limited sales and marketing experience and resources, and we may not be able to effectively market and sell linaclotide. With linaclotide, we are developing a product candidate for large markets traditionally served by general practitioners and internists, as well as gastrointestinal specialists. Traditional pharmaceutical companies employ groups of sales representatives to call on these large generalist physician populations. In order to adequately address these physician groups, we must optimize our co-development and co-promotion relationship in the U.S., Canada and Mexico with Forest, our license and commercialization relationship in Europe with Almirall, and our license and commercialization relationship in certain Asian countries with Astellas. Likewise, we must either establish sales and marketing collaborations or co-promotion arrangements or expend significant resources to develop our own sales and marketing presence outside of North America, Europe, and those Asian countries. We currently possess limited resources and may not be successful in establishing additional collaborations or co-promotion arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We also face competition in our search for collaborators, co-promoters and sales force personnel. If any of our partners undergoes a change in control or management, this may adversely affect our collaborative relationship. We work jointly and collaboratively with Forest, Almirall and Astellas on many decisions related to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of linaclotide. In doing so, we have established relationships with several key members of our partners' management teams in functional areas such as development, quality, regulatory and commercial. The success of our collaboration is highly dependent on the resources, efforts and skills of our partners and their key employees. If a partner undergoes a change of control or a change of management, we will need to reestablish many of these relationships and we will need to regain alignment of our development and commercialization strategy for linaclotide. Further, any change of control or management may result in a reprioritization of linaclotide within such partner's profile, and such a change may adversely affect the timeline and likelihood of achieving regulatory approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of linaclotide, or such partner may 24 Table of Contents fail to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue financing its portion of the development, manufacturing or commercialization costs. We are subject to uncertainty relating to reimbursement policies which, if not favorable for linaclotide, could hinder or prevent linaclotide's commercial success. Our ability to commercialize linaclotide successfully will depend in part on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. As a threshold for coverage and reimbursement, third-party payors generally require that drug products have been approved for marketing by the FDA. Third-party payors also are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. We may not obtain adequate third-party coverage or reimbursement for linaclotide or we may be required to sell linaclotide at a discount. We expect that private insurers will consider the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of linaclotide in determining whether to approve reimbursement for linaclotide and at what level. Obtaining these approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not receive approval for reimbursement of linaclotide from private insurers on a timely or satisfactory basis. Our business could also be adversely affected if private insurers, including managed care organizations, the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the indications for which linaclotide will be reimbursed to a smaller set than we believe it is effective in treating. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada and the countries of Europe, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to strict governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. To obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products, including linaclotide, to other available therapies. Further, several European countries have implemented government measures to either freeze or reduce pricing of pharmaceutical products. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable in any country in which reimbursement is sought, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of linaclotide and our future products due to the potential healthcare reforms discussed below, as well as the trend toward programs aimed at reducing health care costs, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations include: •federal healthcare program anti-kickback laws, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 25 Table of Contents •federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers; •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; •the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of drug samples; •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts; and •the recently-enacted federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, and similar state laws in certain states, that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professional and health care organizations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our product candidates' commercial success. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform, as evidenced by the passing of the Patient Protection and Affordable Healthcare Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. This healthcare reform law increases the number of individuals who receive health insurance coverage and closes a gap in drug coverage under Medicare Part D as established under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement Act of 2003; each of these reforms could potentially increase our future revenue from linaclotide or any other product candidates that are approved for sale. The law, however, also implements cost containment measures that could adversely affect our future revenue. These measures include increased drug rebates under Medicaid for brand name prescription drugs and extension of these rebates to Medicaid managed care. The legislation also extends 340B discounted pricing on outpatient drugs to children's hospitals, critical access hospitals, and rural health centers; this expansion reduces the amount of reimbursement received for drugs purchased by these new 340B-covered entities. Additional provisions of the health care reform law, which become effective in 2011, may negatively affect our future revenue and prospects for profitability. Along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers and importers of brand name prescription drugs, we would be assessed a fee based on 26 Table of Contents our proportionate share of sales of brand name prescription drugs to certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. As part of the health care reform law's provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the "donut hole"), we will also be required to provide a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs sold to beneficiaries who fall within the donut hole. In the aftermath of the healthcare reform law, private health insurers and managed care plans are likely to continue challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. These cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for linaclotide, which would result in lower product revenue or royalties payable to us. In addition, in some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. These proposed reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for linaclotide and our other potential products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 gives the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to assure compliance with post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of approved products. In pursuing our growth strategy, we will incur a variety of costs and may devote resources to potential opportunities that are never completed or for which we never receive the benefit. Our failure to successfully discover, acquire, develop and market additional product candidates or approved products would impair our ability to grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and market additional products and product candidates. We are pursuing various therapeutic opportunities through our pipeline. We may spend several years completing our development of any particular current or future internal product candidate, and failure can occur at any stage. The product candidates to which we allocate our resources may not end up being successful. In addition, because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select, discover and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. 27 Table of Contents In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: •exposure to unknown liabilities; •disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; •incurrence of substantial debt, dilutive issuances of securities or depletion of cash to pay for acquisitions; •higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; •difficulty in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; •increased amortization expenses; •impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and •inability to motivate key employees of any acquired businesses. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Delays in the completion of clinical testing of any of our product candidates could result in increased costs and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues. Delays in the completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to: •obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; •reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; •manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials; •obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the treatment of similar conditions; and •signing-up patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. Clinical trials may also be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, an institutional review board overseeing the 28 Table of Contents clinical trial at a clinical trial site (with respect to that site), the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: •failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the study protocols; •inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; •unforeseen safety issues; and •lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur, and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Each protocol amendment requires institutional review board review and approval, which may adversely impact the costs, timing or successful completion of the associated clinical trials. If we experience delays in completion or if we terminate any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidate may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we lose any of our current management team or if we are unable to attract and motivate key personnel. We may not be able to attract or motivate qualified management and scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the greater-Boston area. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we are not able to attract and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives. We are highly dependent on the development, regulatory, commercial and financial expertise of our management, particularly Peter M. Hecht, Ph.D., our chief executive officer; Mark G. Currie, Ph.D., our senior vice president of research and development and our chief scientific officer; Michael J. Higgins, our senior vice president, chief operating officer and chief financial officer; and Thomas A. McCourt, our senior vice president, marketing and sales and chief commercial officer. If we lose any members of our management team in the future, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. In addition to the competition for personnel, the Boston area in particular is characterized by a high cost of living. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment efforts. We also have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. If we cannot successfully 29 Table of Contents defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for any approved product; •impairment of our business reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •initiation of investigations by regulators; •costs of related litigation; •distraction of management's attention from our primary business; •substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; •loss of revenues; and •the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials that is subject to industry-standard terms, conditions and exclusions. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If and when we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, city and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures we use for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. We do not currently maintain hazardous materials insurance coverage. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Limitations on our patent rights relating to our product candidates may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product candidates, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The strength of patents in the pharmaceutical industry involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. Patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, we cannot be 30 Table of Contents certain that we were the first to conceive inventions covered by our patents and pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, we cannot be certain that our patent applications will be granted, that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. It is possible that technology relevant to our business will be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees and consultants that are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations. Further, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the U.S., and therefore, we may encounter problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property in certain foreign jurisdictions. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, and the ability of our collaborators, to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our potential products may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. There may be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware, that may be infringed by our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties alleging that our product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of our product candidates is found to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we or our collaborators could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize the applicable product candidate unless we obtain a license to the patent. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, pending a trial on the merits, which may not occur for several years. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: •infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management's attention from our core business; 31 Table of Contents •substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party's rights, and, if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner's attorneys' fees; •a court prohibiting us from selling our product unless the third party licenses its rights to us, which it is not required to do; •if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees or grant cross-licenses to our intellectual property rights; and •redesigning our products so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent application at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our collaborators. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our collaborators, misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the U.S. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceeding or developments. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. In recent years, we have focused primarily on developing linaclotide, with the goal of supporting regulatory approval for this product candidate. We have financed our operations primarily through the issuance of equity, including our initial public offering, and our collaboration and license arrangements, and we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1998. We incurred net losses attributable to Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of approximately $53.0 million, approximately $71.2 million and approximately $53.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $367.5 million. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. We expect our expenses to increase in connection with our efforts to commercialize linaclotide and our research and development of our 32 Table of Contents other product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, or if, we will become profitable. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Developing product candidates, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing relationships and marketing drugs are expensive and uncertain. We believe that our cash on hand as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and additional cash milestone payments we may receive from our current and future collaborators give us substantial strategic optionality and will enable us to operate the company in a productive way through at least 2014. However, unforeseen circumstances may arise, our strategic imperatives could change, or opportunities to create or acquire new development programs may emerge, which could require us to seek to raise additional funds. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other product development programs for linaclotide and our other product candidates; •the costs associated with launching and commercializing linaclotide, should it be approved by FDA; •if linaclotide receives regulatory approval, the level of underlying demand for that product; •the costs and timing of in-licensing additional product candidates or acquiring other complementary companies; •the timing of any regulatory approvals of our product candidates; •the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; and •the status, terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements. Additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs or our commercialization efforts. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to frequent fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: •the achievement and timing of milestone payments under our existing collaboration and license agreements; •our execution of any collaboration, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; •the costs associated with launching and commercializing linaclotide and any of our product candidates, if we receive regulatory approval of such candidate; •if linaclotide receives regulatory approval, the level of underlying demand for that product and wholesalers' buying patterns; •variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs; •addition or termination of clinical trials; 33 Table of Contents •regulatory developments affecting our product candidates; and •any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our pre-IPO investors (and their affiliates), founders, directors, executives and employees will limit your ability to influence certain corporate matters. Each share of Class A common stock and each share of Class B common stock has one vote per share on all matters except for the following matters (for which each share of our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and each share of our Class A common stock has one vote per share): •adoption of a merger or consolidation agreement involving Ironwood; •a sale of all or substantially all of Ironwood's assets; •a dissolution or liquidation of Ironwood; and •every matter, if and when any individual, entity or "group" (as such term is used in Regulation 13D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act) has, or has publicly disclosed (through a press release or a filing with the SEC) an intent to have, beneficial ownership of 30% or more of the number of outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, combined. Because of our dual class common stock structure, the holders of our Class B common stock, who consist of our pre-IPO investors (and their affiliates), founders, directors, executives and employees, will continue to be able to control the corporate matters listed above if any such matter is submitted to our stockholders for approval even if they come to own less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As of March 15, 2011, the holders of our Class A common stock own 48.9% and the holders of our Class B common stock own 51.1% of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock, combined. However, because of our dual class common stock structure these holders of our Class A common stock have 8.7% and holders of our Class B common stock have 91.3% of the total votes in each of the matters identified in the list above. This concentrated control with our Class B common stock holders limits the ability of the Class A common stockholders to influence those corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that many of our stockholders do not view as beneficial, which could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. These provisions include the following: •Our certificate of incorporation provides for a dual class common stock structure. As a result of this structure, our pre-IPO investors (and each of their affiliates), founders, directors, executives and employees, each of whom hold shares of our Class B common stock, have significant influence over certain matters requiring stockholder approval, including significant corporate transactions, such as a merger. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating a change of control transaction that other stockholders may view as beneficial. 34 Table of Contents •Our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board are elected at one time. This staggered board structure prevents stockholders from replacing the entire board at a single stockholders' meeting. •Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors. •Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock. The ability to authorize preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. •Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting. Furthermore, stockholders may only remove a member of our board of directors for cause. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect such acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. •Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are not able to take certain actions outside of a stockholders' meeting. •Special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock are not able to call a special meeting. •A majority of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock are required to amend our certificate of incorporation and a super-majority (80%) of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock are required to amend our by-laws, which make it more difficult to change the provisions described above. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors. We expect that the price of our Class A common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile due to many factors, including: •FDA or international regulatory actions, including actions on regulatory applications for any of our product candidates; •the commercial performance of any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval; •announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; •announcements concerning product development results, including clinical trial results, or intellectual property rights of others; •litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; 35 Table of Contents •actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; •deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; •sales of additional shares of our common stock; •additions or departures of key personnel; •any third-party coverage and reimbursement policies for linaclotide; •developments concerning current or future strategic collaborations; and •discussion of us or our stock price in the financial or scientific press or in online investor communities. The realization of any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors" could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections titled "Risk Factors," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Business," contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements convey our current expectations or forecasts of future events. All statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our future financial position, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, plans and objectives of management for future operations. The words "may," "continue," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "will," "believe," "project," "expect," "seek," "anticipate" and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward-looking. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements about: •the progress of, timing of and amount of expenses associated with our research, development and commercialization activities; •the timing, conduct and success of our clinical studies for our product candidates; •our ability to obtain U.S. and foreign regulatory approval for our product candidates and the ability of our product candidates to meet existing or future regulatory standards; •our goal to execute on our owner-related business principles; •our expectations regarding federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements; •the therapeutic benefits and effectiveness of our product candidates; •the safety profile and related adverse events of our product candidates; •our ability to manufacture sufficient amounts of linaclotide for commercialization activities with target characteristics; •our plans with respect to collaborations and licenses related to the development, manufacture or sale of our product candidates; •our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels and liquidity sources; •the timing of commercializing our product candidates; 36 Table of Contents •the accuracy of our estimates of the size and characteristics of the markets that may be addressed by our product candidates; •our ability to compete with other companies that are or may be developing or selling products that are competitive with our product candidates; •anticipated trends and challenges in our potential markets; •our ability to attract and motivate key personnel; and •other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be inaccurate. These forward-looking statements may be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified under the heading "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur as contemplated, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information or future events or otherwise. You should, however, review the factors and risks we describe in the reports we will file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 