D. Risk Factors" and the following: ● actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; ● changes in our cash flow, EBITDA or earnings estimates; ● changes in the price of oil; ● publication of research reports about us or the industry in which we operate; ● increases in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of common shares to demand a higher expected yield which, would mean our share price would fall; ● changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; ● changes in market valuations of similar companies; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments; ● adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● actions by institutional stockholders; ● speculation in the press or investment community; ● terrorist attacks; ● economic and regulatory trends; and ● general market conditions. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares or at all. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our common shares could have an adverse effect on our share price. In order to finance the currently contracted and future growth of our fleet, we will have to incur substantial additional indebtedness and possibly issue additional equity securities. Future common share issuances, directly or indirectly through convertible or exchangeable securities, options or warrants, will generally dilute the ownership interests of our existing common stockholders, including their relative voting rights, and could require substantially more cash to maintain the then existing level, if any, of our dividend payments to our common stockholders, as to which no assurance can be given. Preferred shares, if issued, will generally have a preference on dividend payments, which could prohibit or otherwise reduce our ability to pay dividends to our common stockholders. Our debt will be senior in all respects to our common shares, will generally include financial and operating covenants with which we must comply and will include acceleration provisions upon defaults thereunder, including our failure to make any debt service payments, and possibly under other debt. Because our decision to issue equity securities or incur debt in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions and other matters that are beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the timing, amount or form of our capital raising activities in the future. Such activities could, however, cause the price of our common shares to decline significantly. 26 As of February 14, 2014, DryShips owned 78,301,755, or approximately 59.4%, of our outstanding common shares, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. George Economou, was deemed to beneficially own 5,543,289, or approximately 4.2% of our outstanding common shares and our Executive Vice President, Mr. Anthony Kandylidis, was deemed to beneficially own 1,684,512, or 1.3%, of our outstanding common shares. The common shares held by DryShips and beneficially owned by Mr. Economou are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and may not be transferred unless they have been registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. Upon satisfaction of certain conditions, Rule 144 permits the sale of certain amounts of restricted securities six months following the date of acquisition of the restricted securities from us. As our common shares become eligible for sale under Rule 144, the volume of sales of our common shares on applicable securities markets may increase, which could reduce the market value of our common shares. DryShips, our parent company, controls the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote. As of February 14, 2014, DryShips owned approximately 59.4%, of our outstanding common shares. DryShips will control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. DryShips's interests may be different from your interests and the commercial goals of DryShips as a shareholder, and our goals, may not always be aligned. The substantial equity interests owned by DryShips may make it more difficult for us to maintain our business independence from other companies owned by DryShips and DryShips's affiliates. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our securities. Several provisions of our second amended and restated articles of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: ● authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred shares without shareholder approval; ● providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; ● prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; ● authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; ● limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders ; and ● establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, we entered into an Amended and Restated Stockholder Rights Agreement that makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our board of directors. Under the Amended and Restated Stockholder Rights Agreement, our board of directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right, or a right, to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Participating Preferred Shares for each of our outstanding common shares. Each right entitles the registered holder, upon the occurrence of certain events, to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Shares. The rights may have anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. As a result, the overall effect of the rights may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us. Because our board of directors will be able to approve a redemption of the rights or a permitted offer, the rights should not interfere with a merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. 27 Although the BCA does not contain specific provisions regarding "business combinations" between corporations organized under the laws of the Republic of Marshall Islands and "interested shareholders," our second amended and restated articles of incorporation include provisions that prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless: ● prior to the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder; ● upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the interested shareholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; ● at or subsequent to the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested shareholder; or ● the shareholder became an interested shareholder prior to the consummation of our initial public offering under the Securities Act. For purposes of these provisions, a "business combination" includes mergers, consolidations, exchanges, asset sales, leases and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested shareholder and an "interested shareholder" is any person or entity that beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock and any person or entity affiliated with or controlling or controlled by that person or entity, other than DryShips, provided, however, that the term "interested shareholder" does not include any person whose ownership of shares in excess of the 15% limitation is the result of action taken solely by us; provided that such person shall be an interested shareholder if thereafter such person acquires additional shares of our voting shares, except as a result of further action by us not caused, directly or indirectly, by such person. Further, the term "business combination", when used in reference to us and any "interested shareholder" does not include any transactions for which definitive agreements were entered into prior to May 3, 2011, the date the second amended and restated articles of incorporation were filed with the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 