ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. 21 Table of Contents As a result of our focus on one- to four-family residential real estate loans and the low demand for adjustable-rate loans in our market area, the interest rates we earn on our loans are generally fixed for a longer period of time. Additionally, many of our securities investments are of longer maturities with fixed interest rates. Like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities than loans, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. For example, as of December 31, 2009, 88.2% of our loans had maturities of 15 years or longer, while 81.6% of our certificates of deposits had maturities of one year or less. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called or prepaid, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of our investment and mortgage-backed securities, all classified as held to maturity, totaled $606.3 million. Net unrealized gains on these securities totaled $7.9 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, the Office of Thrift Supervision “rate shock” analysis indicated that our net portfolio value (the difference between the present value of our assets and the present value of our liabilities) would decrease by $77.6 million if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Our lending activities provide lower interest rates than financial institutions that originate more commercial loans. Our principal lending activity consists of originating one- to four-family residential real estate mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2009, these loans totaled $555.5 million, or 91.3% of total loans as of that date. We originate our loans with a focus on limiting credit risk and not to generate the highest return or create the greatest difference between our cost of funds and the yield on our interest-earning assets (interest rate spread). We intend to continue our focus on residential real estate lending. Residential real estate mortgage loans generally have lower interest rates than commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans and consumer loans. As a result, we may generate lower interest rate spreads and rates of return when compared to our competitors who originate more consumer or commercial loans than we do. 22 Table of Contents We could record future losses on our holdings of trust preferred securities that we purchased from issuer pools consisting primarily of financial institution holding companies. In addition, we may not receive full future interest payments on these securities. We own shares of trust preferred securities with an adjusted cost basis of $3.5 million, and a fair value of $100,000 at December 31, 2009. The trust preferred securities are debt obligations issued by two issuer pools (Preferred Term Securities XXIII, Ltd. co-marketed by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc. and FTN Financial Capital Markets (“PreTSL XXIII”) and Preferred Term Securities XXIV, Ltd. co-marketed by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc. and FTN Financial Capital Markets (“PreTSL XXIV”)), consisting primarily of holding companies for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured financial institutions. Each of these securities is a Class D security, and was originated with a credit rating of BBB. As of December 31, 2009, PreTSL XXIII and PreTSL XXIV were rated CC and C, respectively. PreTSL XXIII’s credit rating was downgraded to C on February 12, 2010. We recognized a pre-tax loss for other-than-temporary impairment of $2.5 million on PreTSL XXIV for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, effective January 1, 2009, the cumulative effect of our adoption of revisions to the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC) resulted in the reclassification of $1.5 million of securities impairment from retained earnings to accumulated other comprehensive loss. In subsequent quarters, we determined that PreTSL XXIV was other-than-temporarily impaired and recorded an additional impairment charge of $1.0 million in 2009, of which $3.5 million was a credit loss recorded through our income statement as a charge to non-interest income, and $2.5 million was recorded as a decrease to other comprehensive loss. The $3.5 million impairment charge for 2009 includes the $2.5 million that was previously reflected as a charge against income in the last quarter of 2008, but due to revisions in accounting pronouncements, the Company was required to once again charge income in the amount of $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 for the same security. Our investment in PreTSL XXIII is not other-than-temporarily impaired because we will not more likely than not be required to sell this security before recovering the amortized cost basis of $3.5 million. The following table sets forth information with respect to these securities as of December 31, 2009. Pool Deal Name Book Value Fair Value UnrealizedGain (Loss) CreditRating Number ofFinancialInstitutionsin Pool DeferralsandDefaults asa % ofCollateral ExcessSubordination(1) (Dollars in Thousands) PreTSL XXIII $ 3,542 $ 100 $ (3,442 ) CC 117 22.6 % $ 81,000 PreTSL XXIV $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 C 83 29.4 % $ 0 (1) Estimated present value of future cash flows in excess of amortized cost basis, assuming that 50% of the security collateral is called in the 10th year following issuance. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to PreTSL XXIII constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer 23 Table of Contents specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair value of PreTSL XXIII could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we received no interest payments on the trust preferred securities. The continued failure of the trust preferred issuers to make interest payments for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. The United States economy is in a deep recession. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, would likely adversely affect our business and financial results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets during the latter half of 2007 and during 2008 and 2009, with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2010. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions, reflecting in part, the deteriorating U.S. economy and rising unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate slump also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Specifically, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that noncurrent assets plus other real estate owned as a percentage of assets for FDIC insured financial institutions rose to 5.37% as of December 31, 2009, compared to 2.97% as of December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that return on average assets was 0.03% for FDIC insured financial institutions compared to -1.10% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The NASDAQ Bank Index declined 18.50% between December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009. Continued negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, continued declines in the stock market in general, or for stock of financial institutions and their holding companies, could affect our stock performance. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the developments described above, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Office of 24 Table of Contents Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle common stock as of December 31, 2009 was $12.3 million based on its par value. There is no market for our Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle common stock. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. Specifically, in 2009, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle has incurred credit losses on its investment in private-label mortgage-backed securities. These losses have reduced the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle’s net income and net worth. The Federal Home loan Bank of Seattle has met all of its regulatory capital requirements but its regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, has classified it as undercapitalized because further losses on private-label mortgage-backed securities will reduce capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capital of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle common stock could be impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle stopped paying dividends during the fourth quarter of 2008. This will negatively affect our earnings. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle stopped paying dividends during the fourth quarter of 2008, and would be prohibited from paying dividends in the future so long as it fails to meet any of its regulatory capital requirements. The failure of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle to pay dividends for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. Non-residential real estate loans increase our exposure to credit risks. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial real estate, construction and other non-residential real estate loans totaled $20.8 million, or 3.4% of total loans. These loans generally expose us to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.3% of total loans at December 31, 2009, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Hawaii, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in the state. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in the State of Hawaii have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. On the island of Oahu, the primary real estate market in Hawaii, sales of existing single-family homes totaled 2,658 units during the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of 3.0% compared to similar sales during the year ended December 31, 2008. The number of condominium sales (which was greater than the number of single-family home resales) declined by 10.0% during the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. 26 Table of Contents On the island of Maui, the second largest real estate market, sales of existing single-family homes totaled 693 units for 2009, a decrease of 23.9% compared to 2008, while the median price for the year ended December 31, 2009 declined by 15.0% compared to the median price for the year ended December 31, 2008. The number of condominium sales increased by 4.3% between 2008 and 2009. The slowing Hawaiian economy also resulted in a rise in delinquency and foreclosure rates. The number of foreclosures in the State of Hawaii has recently increased from an average of approximately 630 foreclosure filings per month for the six months ended June 2009 to 1,534 foreclosures during December 2009. Approximately one in twenty-one Hawaii homeowners was delinquent in their mortgage payments as of September 2009. Our local economy relies heavily on the tourism industry. Continued downturns in this industry could affect our operations and results. Tourism is one of the two largest components of Hawaii’s economy. The Hawaii Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism reported a 2.6% increase in tourists for the month of December 2009 compared to December 2008. Tourism, however, declined 4.1% when comparing the first 11 months of 2009 to the first 11 months of 2008. Similarly, the unemployment rate in the State of Hawaii increased to 6.5% as of December 2009, compared to 5.1% as of December 2008. Continued downturns in the tourism industry, and the related loss of jobs or operating income for businesses, could have a significant impact on our ability to originate loans, and the ability of borrowers to repay loans, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulation, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Severe weather, natural disasters and other external events could significantly affect our operations and results. Because all of our office locations are located in the State of Hawaii, severe weather or natural disasters, such as tsunamis, hurricanes and earthquakes and other adverse external events could have a significant effect on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Accordingly, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $689,000 during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general deposit insurance assessment rate and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also adopted a rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepayment amount was collected on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 is based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 will be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period will be calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. We recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Based on our deposits and assessment rate as of September 30, 2009, our prepayment amount was $4.3 million. Legislative proposals have been introduced that would eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, which would require Territorial Bancorp Inc. to become a bank holding company. Legislation has been proposed that would implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure, including eliminating our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, by merging the Office of Thrift Supervision into the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks). The proposed legislation would also establish a Financial Services Oversight Council and grant the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System exclusive authority to regulate all bank and thrift holding companies. As a result, Territorial Bancorp Inc. would become a holding company subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board as opposed to the Office of Thrift Supervision, and would become subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulations, including holding company capital requirements, that Territorial Bancorp Inc. would not be subject to as a savings and loan holding company. In addition, compliance with new regulations and being supervised by one or more new regulatory agencies could increase our expenses. 28 Table of Contents System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our stock value may be negatively affected by federal regulations that restrict takeovers. For three years following our stock offering, Office of Thrift Supervision regulations prohibit any person from acquiring or offering to acquire more than 10% of our common stock without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. The corporate governance provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and the corporate governance provisions under Maryland law, may prevent or impede the holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may impede takeovers of the company that our board might conclude are not in the best interest of Territorial Bancorp Inc. or its stockholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may make takeovers of Territorial Bancorp Inc. more difficult. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. Our articles of incorporation include a provision that no person will be entitled to vote any shares of our common stock in excess of 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This limitation does not apply to the purchase of shares by a tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan established by us. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict who may call special meetings of stockholders and how directors may be removed from office. Additionally, in certain instances, the Maryland General Corporation Law requires a supermajority vote of our stockholders to approve a merger or other business combination with a large stockholder, if the proposed transaction is not approved by a majority of our directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents 