ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been one factor contributing to the increase in our interest rate spread as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to lower our interest expense will be limited since our cost of funds at December 31, 2011 is relatively low while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has recently indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates until at least late 2014. Accordingly, our net interest income may be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. As a result of our focus on one- to four-family residential real estate loans and the low demand for adjustable-rate loans in our market area, the interest rates we earn on our loans are generally fixed for long periods of time. Additionally, many of our securities investments are of long maturities with fixed interest rates. Like many savings institutions, our focus on deposit accounts as a source of funds, which have no stated maturity date or shorter contractual maturities than loans, results in our liabilities having a shorter duration than our assets. For example, as of December 31, 2011, 90.2% of our loans had maturities of 15 years or longer, while 82.2% of our certificates of deposits had maturities of one year or less. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over 22 Table of Contents time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets, such as loans and investments, may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, such as deposits. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, thereby requiring us to reinvest these cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our investment in held-to-maturity securities totaled $687.3 million. Net unrealized gains on these securities totaled $33.7 million at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, our “rate shock” analysis indicated that our net portfolio value (the difference between the present value of our assets and the present value of our liabilities) would decrease by $21.4 million if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Our lending activities provide lower interest rates than financial institutions that originate more commercial loans. Our principal lending activity consists of originating one- to four-family residential real estate mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2011, these loans totaled $654.4 million, or 93.9% of total loans as of that date. We originate our loans with a focus on limiting credit risk and not to generate the highest return or create the greatest difference between our cost of funds and the yield on our interest-earning assets (interest rate spread). Residential real estate mortgage loans generally have lower interest rates than commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans and consumer loans. As a result, we may generate lower interest rate spreads and rates of return when compared to our competitors who originate more consumer or commercial loans than we do. We intend to continue our focus on residential real estate lending. We could record future losses on our holdings of trust preferred securities that we purchased from issuer pools consisting primarily of financial institution holding companies. In addition, we may not receive full future interest payments on these securities. We owned shares of trust preferred securities with an adjusted cost basis of $32,000, and a fair value of $259,000 at December 31, 2011. The trust preferred securities are debt obligations issued by two issuer pools (Preferred Term Securities XXIII, Ltd. co-marketed by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc. and FTN Financial Capital Markets (“PreTSL XXIII”) and Preferred Term Securities XXIV, Ltd. co-marketed by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc. and FTN Financial Capital Markets (“PreTSL XXIV”)), consisting primarily of holding companies for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured financial institutions. 23 Table of Contents Each of these securities is a Class D security, and was originated with a credit rating of BBB. As of December 31, 2011, both PreTSL XXIII and PreTSL XXIV were rated C by Fitch. We recognized a pre-tax loss for other-than-temporary impairment of $2.5 million on PreTSL XXIV for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, effective January 1, 2009, the cumulative effect of our adoption of revisions to the Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (FASB ASC) resulted in the reclassification of $1.5 million of securities impairment from retained earnings to accumulated other comprehensive loss. In subsequent quarters, we determined that PreTSL XXIV was other-than-temporarily impaired and recorded an additional impairment charge of $1.0 million in 2009, of which $3.5 million was a credit loss recorded through our income statement as a charge to non-interest income, and $2.5 million was recorded as a decrease to other comprehensive loss. The $3.5 million impairment charge for 2009 includes the $2.5 million that was previously reflected as a charge against income in the last quarter of 2008. Due to revisions in accounting pronouncements, we were required to once again charge income in the amount of $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 for the same security. PreTSL XXIV has a book value of $0. Our investment in PreTSL XXIII was determined to be other-than temporarily impaired as the present value of cash flows was lower than the amortized cost basis of the security. We recorded an impairment charge of $2.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2010. When the impairment charge of $2.4 million on PreTSL XXIII was recorded, the security was written down to its fair value of $32,000. The $1.1 million difference between the original outstanding principal balance of $3.5 million and the impairment charge of $2.4 million was reported as other comprehensive loss and is related to noncredit factors such as an inactive trust preferred securities market. It is reasonably possible that the fair value of PreTSL XXIII could decline in the near term if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and the liquidity of these securities remains low. As a result, there is a risk that the Company’s remaining amortized cost basis of $1.1 million in PreTSL XXIII could be credit-related other-than-temporarily impaired in the near term. The impairment could be material to the Company’s consolidated statement of income. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to PreTSL XXIII constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair value of PreTSL XXIII could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we received no interest payments on the trust preferred securities. The continued failure of the trust preferred issuers to make interest payments for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. 24 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information with respect to these securities as of December 31, 2011: Pool Deal Name Book Value Fair Value UnrealizedGain CreditRating Number ofFinancialInstitutionsin Pool DeferralsandDefaultsas a % ofCollateral ExcessSubordination(1) (Dollars in Thousands) PreTSL XXIII $ 32 $ 259 $ 227 C 109 26.8 % $ 0 PreTSL XXIV $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 C 79 35.8 % $ 0 (1) Estimated present value of future cash flows in excess of amortized cost basis, assuming that 50% of the security collateral is called in the 10th year following issuance. We have been negatively affected by current market and economic conditions. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Recent economic conditions have resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial markets and continued expectations of weak general economic conditions. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. The credit quality of loan and investment securities portfolios has deteriorated at many financial institutions and the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Financial companies’ stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could result in reduced loan demand and further increases in loan delinquencies, loan losses, loan loss provisions, costs associated with monitoring delinquent loans and disposing of foreclosed property, and otherwise negatively affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Further, a decline in the stock market in general, or for stock of financial institutions and their holding companies, could affect our stock performance. The Standard & Poor’s downgrade in the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, and in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by certain related institutions, agencies and instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other U.S. government agencies linked to long-term U.S. debt. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including the Bank. These downgrades could adversely affect the market value of such instruments, and could adversely impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. We cannot predict if, when or how these changes to the credit ratings will affect economic conditions. These ratings downgrades could result in a significant adverse impact to us, and could exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject, including those described above. 25 Table of Contents Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the developments described above, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations and other regulatory changes may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Federal and state proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle has entered into a consent order with the Federal Housing Finance Agency. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle common stock as of December 31, 2011 was $12.3 million based on its par value. There is no market for our Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle common stock. On October 25, 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle entered into a consent order with the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”), which requires the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle to take certain specified actions related to its business and operations. Following the filing of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle’s second quarter 2011 quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and once the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle reaches and maintains certain thresholds, the bank may begin repurchasing member capital stock at par. Further, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may again be in position to redeem certain capital stock from members and begin paying dividends once the bank: • achieves and maintains certain other financial and operational metrics; • remediates certain concerns regarding its oversight and management, asset improvement program, capital adequacy and retained earnings, risk management, compensation practices, examination findings, and information technology; and • returns to a “safe and sound” condition as determined by the FHFA. 26 Table of Contents Any stock repurchases and redemptions and dividend payments will be subject to FHFA approval. There continues to be a risk that the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may not be permitted to redeem certain capital stock from members and begin paying dividends in the future, and that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle common stock could be impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Non-residential real estate loans and commercial business loans increase our exposure to credit risks. At December 31, 2011, our portfolio of commercial real estate, construction and other non-residential real estate loans totaled $12.7 million, or 1.8% of total loans. In addition, at December 31, 2011, our portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $3.9 million, or 0.6% of total loans. These loans generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small- to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions adversely affect these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. In addition, some of our commercial business loans are collateralized by a security interest in furniture, fixtures and equipment and the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because the collateral may have limited use or value. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. For additional information see “Item 1. Business—Competition.” If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.2% of total loans at December 31, 2011, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. 27 Table of Contents In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our employee stock ownership plan may continue to increase our costs, which would reduce our income. Our employee stock ownership plan purchased 8% of the total shares of common stock sold in our stock offering using funds borrowed from Territorial Bancorp Inc. We record annual employee stock ownership plan expense in an amount equal to the fair value of the shares of common stock released to employees over the term of the loan. If the value of the shares of common stock continues to appreciate up to the time shares are released, compensation expense relating to the employee stock ownership plan will increase and our net income will decline. Our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan will increase our expenses and reduce our income, and may dilute your ownership interests. In August 2010, our stockholders approved the Territorial Bancorp Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. Stockholders approved the issuance of 736,434 shares of common stock pursuant to restricted stock and the issuance of 976,203 shares of common stock pursuant to stock options. During 2011, we recognized $3.5 million in non-interest expense relating to this stock benefit plan that includes $696,000 of expenses, which the Company recognized when a director passed away. Except for the expenses related to the director who passed away, we expect to incur similar expenses in the future. The actual amount of future expenses may be greater on an annual basis. We may fund the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan either through open market purchases or from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. Our ability to repurchase shares of common stock to fund this plan will be subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, applicable regulatory restrictions on stock repurchases, the availability of stock in the market, the trading price of the stock, our capital levels, alternative uses for our capital and our financial performance. Our intention is to fund the plan through open market purchases and we have repurchased 1,336,975 shares as of December 31, 2011. However, stockholders would experience a reduction in ownership interest in the event newly issued shares of our common stock are used to fund stock options and shares of restricted common stock beyond the shares we have already repurchased. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Hawaii, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in the state. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in the State of Hawaii have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. The number of existing single-family homes and condominium units sold in 2011 have increased compared to 2010 but real estate prices on some islands have declined. Home prices have not declined as severely as those reported on the mainland. 28 Table of Contents On the island of Oahu, the primary real estate market in Hawaii, sales of existing single-family homes totaled 2,974 units for the year ended December 31, 2011, a decrease of 2.7% compared to sales in 2010. The number of condominium sales, a notable portion of the overall housing market, grew by 1.3% in 2011 compared to 2010. The median price paid on Oahu for a single-family home in 2011 was $575,000, a decrease of 3.0% compared to the median price in 2010. The median price paid on Oahu for condominiums in 2011 was $300,000, a decrease of 1.6% compared to the median price in 2010. On the island of Maui, the second largest real estate market in Hawaii, sales of existing single-family homes totaled 898 units in 2011, an increase of 9.9% compared to similar sales during 2010. The number of condominium sales increased by 1.0% in 2011 compared to 2010. The median price paid for a single-family home on Maui in 2011 was $433,500, a decrease of 5.8% compared to the median price in 2010. The median price paid on Maui for condominiums in 2011 was $310,000, a 17.9% decrease compared to the median price in 2010. Foreclosure and bankruptcy filings fell in 2011 compared to 2010. There were 6,012 mortgage foreclosure cases in Hawaii in 2011, a 51.6% decrease from 2010. The decrease in foreclosure filings is attributed to a new Hawaii law that was intended to protect homeowners’ rights by requiring mediation in nonjudicial foreclosure cases. In 2011, there were 3,325 bankruptcy filings, a decrease of 15.9% compared to the number of filings in 2010. Our local economy relies heavily on the tourism industry. Downturns in this industry could affect our operations and results. Tourism is one of the two largest components of Hawaii’s economy. The Hawaii Tourism Authority reported visitor arrivals and visitor spending grew by 3.8% and 15.6%, respectively, in 2011 compared to 2010. A downturn in the tourism industry, and the related loss of jobs or operating income for businesses, could have a significant impact on our ability to originate loans, and the ability of borrowers to repay loans, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There also is increased scrutiny of our compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. Severe weather, natural disasters and other external events could significantly affect our operations and results. Because all of our offices are located in the State of Hawaii, severe weather or natural disasters, such as tsunamis, hurricanes and earthquakes and other adverse external events, could have a significant effect on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional 29 Table of Contents expenses. Natural disasters, like the tsunami that occurred in Japan in 2011, could have an impact on the visitor industry in Hawaii. Accordingly, the occurrence of any such severe weather or natural disaster event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial reform legislation has, among other things, eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightened capital standards and created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. In 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts (replacing the Office of Thrift Supervision), and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including Territorial Bancorp Inc. Effective July 21, 2011, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-earning checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly-traded companies to give stockholders a nonbinding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, like Territorial Savings Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to originate mortgage loans may be adversely affected by the restructuring of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are under conservatorship with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, an agency of the U.S. government. On February 11, 2011, the Obama administration presented the U.S. Congress with a report of its proposals for reforming America’s housing finance market with the goal of scaling back the role of the U.S. government in, and promoting the return of private capital to, the mortgage markets and ultimately winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Without mentioning a specific time frame, the report calls for the reduction of the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage markets by, among other things, reducing conforming loan limits, increasing guarantee fees and requiring larger down payments by borrowers. The report presents three options for the long-term structure of housing finance, all of which call for the unwinding of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and a reduced role of the government in the mortgage market: (i) a system with U.S. government insurance limited to a narrowly targeted group of lower- and moderate-income borrowers; (ii) a system similar to (i) above except with an expanded guarantee during times of crisis; and (iii) a system where the U.S. government offers reinsurance for the securities of a broad range of mortgages behind significant private capital. We cannot be certain if or when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be wound down, if or when reform of the housing finance market will be implemented or what the future role of the U.S. government will be in the mortgage market, and, accordingly, we will not be able to determine the impact that any such reform may have on us until a definitive reform plan is adopted. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Newly enacted financial reform legislation will change the bank regulatory framework, create an independent consumer protection bureau that will assume the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation will also result in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. 31 Table of Contents System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, these security measures may not be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We mitigate this risk through guidance promulgated for all financial institutions by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council and the regulations issued under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. This guidance also requires our core data processor to meet these standards. We regularly self-audit or review exams from auditors as well as federal banking regulators to assure that these standards are being met, internally as well by our important data processing vendors. We also implemented firewall and other internal controls to protect our systems from compromise. Nevertheless, our system could be compromised and it is possible that significant amounts of time and money may be spent to rectify the harm caused by a breach or hack. While we have general liability insurance and cyber liability insurance, we know there are limitations on coverage as well as dollar amount. Furthermore, cyber incidents carry a greater risk of injury to our reputation. Finally, depending on the type of incident, banking regulators can impose restrictions on our business and consumer laws may require reimbursement of customer loss. Our stock value may be negatively affected by federal regulations that restrict takeovers. For three years following our stock offering, federal banking regulations prohibit any person from acquiring or offering to acquire more than 10% of our common stock without the prior written approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The corporate governance provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and the corporate governance provisions under Maryland law, may prevent or impede the holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may impede takeovers of the company that our board might conclude are not in the best interest of Territorial Bancorp Inc. or its stockholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors and may make takeovers of Territorial Bancorp Inc. more difficult. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. Our articles of incorporation include a provision that no person will be entitled to vote any shares of our common 32 Table of Contents stock in excess of 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This limitation does not apply to the purchase of shares by a tax-qualified employee stock benefit plan established by us. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict who may call special meetings of stockholders and how directors may be removed from office. Additionally, in certain instances, the Maryland General Corporation Law requires a supermajority vote of our stockholders to approve a merger or other business combination with a large stockholder, if the proposed transaction is not approved by a majority of our directors. Legislative proposals would increase our state income taxes. Recent legislative proposals in the State of Hawaii would increase taxes and other expenses paid by companies like Territorial Bancorp Inc., including increased taxes on banks and other financial corporations, the application of excise taxes on proceeds from bank-owned life insurance, and the imposition of other fees on financial institutions. If adopted, these proposals would increase our taxes and other non-interest expenses and reduce our net income. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents 