Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to Anchor Bancorp, our industry, and our market area. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and are subject to certain business limitations. Further, we may be subject to more severe future regulatory enforcement actions if our financial condition or performance weakens further. Primarily because of its increased level of non-performing assets, on August 12, 2009, Anchor Bank became subject to the Order, issued with its consent, by the FDIC and DFI because they had reason to believe that Anchor Bank had engaged in unsafe and unsound banking practices and violations of law and/or regulations. The Order is a formal corrective action pursuant to which Anchor Bank has agreed to take certain measures in the areas of capital, loan loss allowance determination, risk management, liquidity management, board oversight and monitoring of compliance, and imposes certain operating restrictions on Anchor Bank. The Order will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the FDIC and DFI. See Item 1., “Business – Corporate Developments” for a more detailed discussion of the Order. If the FDIC or DFI were to determine that Anchor Bank was not in compliance with the Order, it would have available various remedies, including among others, the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to remove officers and/or directors, to assess civil monetary penalties or to enforce the Order through court proceedings. Management has been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the Order. Anchor Bank believes that as of June 30, 2011, it was in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Order, other than the requirement to reduce classified assets to 30% of capital. At June 30, 2011, classified assets were 22.8% of capital. Compliance with the Order, however, is subject to a determination by the FDIC and DFI. The FDIC or DFI may determine, in its sole discretion, that we have not addressed the issues raised by the Order satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions taken by it. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”). This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for 53 higher levels of capital than, current regulations. In addition, the banking regulators are required to seek to make capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies, countercyclical so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts and IOLTA accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the federal banking regulators to issue rules prohibiting incentive compensation that encourages inappropriate risks. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as Anchor Bank, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Washington and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the six counties in which we operate, including the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, which we consider to be our primary market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: ● loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; ● demand for our products and services may decline possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets; 54 ● collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and ● the amount of our low-cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At June 30, 2011, $97.1 million, or 29.1% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to-four single-family residential real property. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices, coupled with the recent recession and the associated increases in unemployment, may result in higher loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in our deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. See Item 1., “Business – Lending Activities – One- to Four-Family Residential Real Estate Lending.” Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate construction and land loans, commercial and multi-family mortgage loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, as well as residential mortgage loans primarily within our market areas. Generally, these types of loans, other than the residential mortgage loans, have a higher risk of loss than the residential mortgage loans. At June 30, 2011, we had $236.2 million outstanding in these types of higher risk loans, a decrease of $58.1 million compared to $294.3 million outstanding at June 30, 2010. For the year ended June 30, 2011, loans delinquent 30 days or more, including non-performing loans, decreased to $26.0 million, of which $3.6 million was in one-to-four family residential construction loans and $4.4 million was in other construction and land development loans. For the comparable period in 2010, we had $28.5 million loans that were delinquent 30 days or more, including non-performing loans, which included $6.7 million in one-to-four family residential construction loans and $10.5 million in other construction and land development loans. At June 30, 2011, delinquent loans represented 7.8% of total loans, including construction loans which represented 2.3% of total loans. For the comparable period in 2010, delinquent loans represented 7.0% of total loans, including construction loans which represented 4.2% of total loans. These loans have greater credit risk than residential real estate loans for a number of reasons, including those described below: Construction and Land Loans. At June 30, 2011, we had $11.7 million or 3.5% of total loans in construction loans, including $2.1 million, net of loans in process, of land acquisition and development loans to three builders. In addition, we had $6.7 million of land loans to individuals at June 30, 2011. During the year ended June 30, 2007, we significantly increased our origination of construction and land acquisition and development loans to builders. Since 2008, and as required by the Order, we have significantly decreased our origination of construction and land acquisition and development loans to builders. Most of our construction loans relate to the construction of single family residences. At June 30, 2011, $4.0 million of our construction loans were to builders for speculative construction loans. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of origination. All of our construction loan portfolio consists of loans requiring interest only payments, of which a $2.8 million construction loan was relying on an interest reserve to make required payments. This loan has matured, on non- 55 accrual status and is subject to a workout agreement. Interest reserves are a means through which a lender builds in, as a part of the loan approval, the amount of the monthly interest for a specified period of time. These loan types exposes us to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential mortgage loans because construction and land lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to independently repay principal and interest. In addition, many borrowers of these types of loans have more than one loan outstanding with us so an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of non-payment and loss. Included within the construction loan portfolio are a substantial number of loans referred through a broker relationship from the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, secured by first lien construction deeds of trust on speculative residential construction loans for both attached and detached housing units, as well as residential land acquisition and development loans located in the greater Portland metropolitan area. Many of these loans were originated utilizing our prior underwriting guidelines that focused heavily on the value of the collateral securing the loan, with less emphasis placed on the borrower's debt servicing capacity or other credit factors. As a result, much of the increase in our non-performing assets since 2007 was related to these construction loans and we ceased working with this broker. At June 30, 2011, $5.5 million of our total construction loans had been originated through this broker of which $1.3 million were included in our $11.0 million of non-accruing loans at that date. For more information about the credit risk we face with respect to these types of loans, see Item 1., “Business – Lending Activities – Construction and Land Loans.” Commercial and Multi-family Mortgage Loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated from the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. This risk is exacerbated in this current environment. As required by the Order, we also are implementing a plan to reduce the balance of these loans. At June 30, 2011, we had $148.6 million or 44.6% of total loans in commercial and multi-family mortgage loans. For more information about the credit risk we face with respect to these types of loans, see Item 1., “Business – Lending Activities – Commercial and Multi-Family Real Estate Lending.” Commercial Business Loans. At June 30, 2011, we had $17.3 million or 5.2% of total loans in commercial business loans, however, we are currently planning on expanding our commercial business lending, subject to market conditions. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrower's cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and creditworthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. For more information about the credit risk we face with respect to these types of loans, see Item 1., “Business – Lending Activities – Commercial Business Lending.” Consumer Loans. We make secured and unsecured consumer loans. Our secured consumer loans are collateralized with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that 56 can be recovered on these loans. At June 30, 2011, we had $52.0 million or 15.6% of total loans in consumer loans. Of this amount, $35.7 million were in home equity loans, some of which are loans in amounts for up to 100% of collateral value. For more information about the credit risk, we face with respect to these types of loans, see “Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property,” above and Item 1., “Business – Lending Activities – Consumer Lending.” Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk as the result of subprime loans. As of June 30, 2011, we held in our loan portfolio $8.7 million in one- to four-family mortgage loans (all of which were fixed rate), $1.0 million of automobile loans (all of which were fixed rate), $3.1 million of home equity loans (of which $2.5 million were fixed rate) and $300,000 of other types of consumer loans (all of which were fixed rate), which are considered “subprime” by federal banking regulators. The aggregate amount of loans considered subprime at June 30, 2011 was $13.0 million or 3.9% of our total loan portfolio. In exchange for the additional lender risk associated with these loans, these borrowers generally are required to pay a higher interest rate, and depending on the severity of the credit history, a lower loan-to-value ratio may be required than for a conforming loan borrower. At the time of loan origination, our subprime borrowers had an average Fair Isaac and Company, Incorporated, or FICO, credit score of 622 and a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 63%, which may be significantly understated if current market values are used. A FICO score is a principal measure of credit quality and is one of the significant criteria we rely upon in our underwriting. Generally, a FICO score of 660 or higher indicates the borrower has an acceptable credit reputation. At June 30, 2011, $80,000 of our subprime loans was categorized as non-performing assets and all of these loans were categorized as nonaccrual. Subprime loans are generally considered to have an increased risk of delinquency and foreclosure than do conforming loans, especially when adjustable rate loans adjust to a higher interest rate. We had not experienced such increased delinquencies or foreclosures at June 30, 2011, however, our subprime loan portfolio will be adversely affected in the event of a further downturn in regional or national economic conditions. In addition, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense. Our concentration in non-owner occupied residential real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At June 30, 2011, $20.2 million, or 21.3% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio and 6.1% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At June 30, 2011, we had 16 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, with aggregate outstanding balances of $14.0 million, of which eight loan relationships had an aggregate outstanding balance over $500,000. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. At June 30, 2011, all of our non-owner occupied residential mortgage loans were complying with their loan repayment terms, except for seven loans which totaled $1.1 million at that date. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land acquisition and development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land acquisition and development and other land, and loans 57 otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. Our total non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans were $144.3 million or 246.5% of total capital at June 30, 2011 compared to $178.2 million or 377.4% of total capital at June 30, 2010. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio, which could adversely affect our results of operations and regulatory capital. For the year ended June 30, 2011 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $8.1 million compared to $2.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2010. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $17.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2011 compared to $10.3 million for the comparable period in 2010. Since 2007 we have experienced significant loan delinquencies and credit losses. At June 30, 2011, our total non-performing assets had decreased to $26.9 million compared to $35.2 million at June 30, 2010. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause our delinquencies and foreclosures, as residential construction and land development loans represented approximately 25.7% of our non-performing assets at June 30, 2011. We have extended $2.7 million in construction loans that were otherwise due to permit completion of the project or to provide the borrower additional time to market the underlying collateral. Most of these loans mature within 24 months. To the extent these loans are not further extended or the borrower cannot otherwise refinance with a third party lender our non-performing assets may increase further. Further, our portfolio is concentrated in construction loans and commercial and multi-family loans, all of which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. See “– Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss” above. While construction loans, which includes land acquisition and development loans, represented 3.5% of our total loan portfolio at June 30, 2011 they represented 26.0% of our non-performing assets at that date. This compares to construction loans representing 9.0% of our total loan portfolio and 42.0% of our non-performing assets at June 30, 2010. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, until economic conditions improve, we expect that we will continue to experience significantly higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses to increase our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.2% of total loans held for investment and 51.1% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2011. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. See Item 1., “Business – Asset Quality – Allowance for Loan Losses.” In addition, Western Washington and the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, where substantially all of the real and personal property securing our loans is located, is an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake could result in our significantly increasing our allowance for loan losses resulting in material losses to us, although we have not experienced any losses in the past ten years as a result of earthquake damage to collateral securing loans. See Item 1., “Business – Natural Disasters.” 58 The maturity and repricing characteristics of our assets and liabilities are mismatched and subject us to interest rate risk which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial condition and results of operations are influenced significantly by general economic conditions, including the absolute level of interest rates, as well as changes in interest rates and the slope of the yield curve. Our profitably is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest received from our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities. Significant changes in market interest rates or errors or misjudgments in our interest rate risk management procedures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our activities, like other financial institutions, inherently involve the assumption of interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rates will have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate risk is determined by the maturity and repricing characteristics of our assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. Interest rate risk is measured by the variability of financial performance and economic value resulting from changes in interest rates. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk affecting our financial performance. We believe that the greatest source of interest rate risk to us results from the mismatch of maturities or repricing intervals for our rate sensitive assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet contracts. This mismatch, or “gap,” is generally characterized by a substantially shorter maturity structure for interest-bearing liabilities than interest- earning assets. Additional interest rate risk results from mismatched repricing indices and formulae (basis risk and yield curve risk), and product caps and floors and early repayment or withdrawal provisions (option risk), which may be contractual or market driven, that are generally more favorable to customers than to us. Our primary monitoring tool for assessing interest rate risk is asset/liability simulation modeling, which is designed to capture the dynamics of balance sheet, interest rate and spread movements and to quantify variations in net interest income and net market value of equity resulting from those movements under different rate environments. We update and prepare our simulation modeling at least quarterly for review by senior management and our directors. We believe the data and assumptions are realistic representations of our portfolio and possible outcomes under the various interest rate scenarios. Nonetheless, the interest rate sensitivity of our net interest income and net market value of our equity could vary substantially if different assumptions were used or if actual experience differs from the assumptions used and, as a result, our interest rate risk management strategies may prove to be inadequate. Decreases in noninterest income could adversely affect our profitability and if we cannot generate and increase our income our stock price may be adversely affected. Our net income has decreased steadily in recent years. We also face significant challenges that will hinder our ability to generate competitive returns. Our most significant challenge has been our low interest rate spread and margin during recent periods. As a result, we have become even more reliant on our noninterest income in order to generate net income. While we have identified various strategic initiatives that we will pursue in our efforts to overcome these challenges and improve earnings,, our strategic initiatives may not succeed in generating and increasing income. If we are unable to generate or increase income, our stock price may be adversely affected. For a description of our strategic initiatives to improve earnings, see Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Strategy.” In addition, we originate and sell residential mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our residential loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold can decrease our revenues and net income. Further, recent regulatory changes to the rules for overdraft fees for debit transactions and interchange fees could reduce our fee income which would result in a reduction of our noninterest income. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. FDIC insurance premiums increased significantly in 2009 and we may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. 59 The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0% as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially will be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”) and other borrowings to fund our operations. At June 30, 2011, we had $85.9 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $38.0 million of available borrowing capacity. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated, or adverse regulatory action against us. In addition, under the Order our ability to use brokered deposits as a source of liquidity is limited. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the FDIC and DFI, we may be subject to additional adverse regulatory action. See “– We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and are subject 60 to certain business limitations. Further, we may be subject to more severe future regulatory enforcement actions if our financial condition or performance weakens further.” above. Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock may become impaired. At June 30, 2011, we owned $6.5 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or the FHFA, its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB's private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB's financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. In addition, on October 25, 2010, the FHLB received a consent order from the FHFA. Management is currently reviewing the redeemability of the FHLB stock. The potential impact of the consent order is unknown at this time. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business –How We Are Regulated – Regulation and Supervision of Anchor Bank” and “ – Regulation and Supervision of Anchor Bancorp.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. For example, a federal rule which took effect on July 1, 2010 prohibits a financial institution from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, on ATM and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service. This new rule adversely affected our non-interest income during the second half of 2010 and is likely to continue to adversely affect the results of our operations by reducing the amount of our non-interest income. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property taken in as real estate owned and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (“fair value”). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge- 61 offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. You may not receive dividends on our common stock. It is not expected that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Our strategic business plan filed with in connection with the Order contemplates no payment of dividends throughout the three-year period covered by the plan and we do not expect to be permitted to pay dividends as long as the Order remains in effect. In addition, the FDIC’s non-objection of the conversion restricts us from making any distributions to stockholders that represent a return of capital without the written non-objection of the FDIC Regional Director. The declaration and payment of future cash dividends will be subject to, among other things, our then current and projected consolidated operating results, financial condition, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory restrictions, future growth plans, general economic conditions, and other factors the board deems relevant. In addition, we are subject to government regulations that could limit or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock, including those described under Item 1. “Business-How We Are Regulated”. 62 