D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our securities could decline. Industry Specific Risk Factors We may acquire additional dry bulk carriers, and if those vessels are not delivered on time or are delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could suffer. We may acquire additional vessels in the future. A delay in the delivery of any of these vessels to us or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver a vessel at all could cause us to breach our obligations under a related time charter and could adversely affect our earnings, our financial condition and the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay in the future. The delivery of these vessels could be delayed or certain events may arise which could result in us not taking delivery of a vessel, such as a total loss of a vessel, a constructive loss of a vessel, or substantial damage to a vessel prior to delivery. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. The market values of vessels we may acquire in the future may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our future credit facilities and we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair market values of vessels we may acquire in the future are related to prevailing freight charter rates. While the fair market value of vessels and the freight charter market have a very close relationship as the charter market moves from trough to peak, the time lag between the effect of charter rates on market values of ships can vary. A decrease in the market value of vessels we may acquire in the future would require us to raise additional capital in order to remain compliant with our future loan covenants, and could result in the loss of vessels we may acquire in the future and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The fair market value of vessels we may acquire in the future may increase and decrease depending on a number of factors including: · prevailing level of charter rates; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · types and sizes of vessels; 4 · supply and demand for vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental and other regulations; and · technological advances. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of vessels we may acquire in the future declines, we may not be in compliance with certain security margin covenants of our future credit facilities. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we were not in compliance with certain covenants in our loan facilities, including security margin covenants. As of the date of this annual report, we do not have any outstanding indebtedness. For a discussion of the restructuring of our debt, please see "Item 4. History and Development of the Company—Restructuring." However, we expect that we will enter into secured credit facilities in connection with the future acquisition of vessels. For more information regarding our credit facilities, please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects–B. Liquidity and Capital Resources–Credit Facilities." In addition, if we sell any of the vessels we may acquire in the future at a time when prices are depressed, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. For example, in April 2013, the sale of the African Oryx, a Handysize bulk carrier, to an unrelated third party for $4.1 million resulted in an impairment loss of $0.9 million recorded in the first quarter of 2013. Charter hire rates for dry bulk carriers are highly volatile and remain significantly below the highs of 2008, which has adversely affected our revenues, earnings and profitability and our ability to pay dividends in the future. The abrupt and dramatic downturn in the dry bulk charter market, from which we have derived substantially all of our revenues, has severely affected the dry bulk shipping industry and has harmed our business. The Baltic Dry Index, or BDI, declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 647 in February 2012, which represents a decline of 95%. Over the comparable period of May 2008 through February 2012, the high and low of the Baltic Capesize Index, the Baltic Panamax Index, the Baltic Supramax Index and the Baltic Handysize Index represent declines of 96%, 96%, 94% and 92%, respectively. Since 2008, the BDI has remained volatile. In 2013, the BDI ranged from a low of 698 in January 2013 to a high of 2,337 in December 2013, and to date in 2014, has ranged from a low of 936 in April to a high of 2,113 in January. The decline and volatility in charter rates have been due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, trade disruptions caused by natural disasters, and increased vessel deliveries. Dry bulk charter rates are at depressed levels and may decline further. These circumstances, which result from the economic situation worldwide and the multiple disruptions to the operation of global credit markets, have had a number of adverse consequences for dry bulk shipping, including, among other developments: · decrease in available financing for vessels; · sharp decline in charter rates, particularly for vessels employed in the spot market; · charterers seeking to renegotiate the rates for existing time charters; · widespread loan covenant defaults in the dry bulk shipping industry due to the substantial decrease in vessel values; and · declaration of bankruptcy by some operators, charterers and ship owners. 5 The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk carriers has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter hire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of the vessels that we own to decline and we may not be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may prolong or further depress the current low charter rates and, in turn, adversely affect our profitability. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for dry bulk cargoes carried internationally at sea, including coal, iron, ore, grains and minerals. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order was near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2013. As of the end of February 2014, newbuilding orders were placed for an aggregate of more than 20% of the current global dry bulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next four years. While vessel supply will continue to be affected by the delivery of new vessels and the removal of vessels from the global fleet, either through scrapping or accidental losses, an over-supply of dry bulk carrier capacity, particularly in conjunction with the current low level of demand, could exacerbate the recent decrease in charter rates or prolong the period during which low charter rates prevail. If the current low charter rate environment persists, or a further reduction occurs, during a period when the current charters for our dry bulk carriers expire or are terminated, we may only be able to recharter vessels we may acquire in the future at reduced rates or we may not be able to charter them at all. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for dry bulk carriers are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in dry bulk shipping market conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that could influence demand for seaborne transportation of cargo include: · demand for and production of dry bulk products; · distance that cargo is to be transported by sea; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · environmental and other regulatory developments; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargo is transported due to geographic changes in where commodities are produced and cargoes are used. · factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · number of new vessel deliveries; · scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; · price of steel; · number of vessels that are out of service; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; and · port or canal congestion. 6 In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing dry bulk fleet in the market and government and industry regulations of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for vessels we may acquire in the future will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the world's dry bulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of cargo to be transported by sea. If the global vessel capacity increases in the dry bulk shipping market, but the demand for vessel capacity in this market does not increase or increases at a slower rate, the charter rates could materially decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will impede our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. In addition, the world economy continues to face a number of new challenges, including uncertainty related to the continuing discussions in the United States regarding the federal debt ceiling and recent turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries and continuing economic weakness in the European Union. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods and, thus, shipping. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, have caused the price of our common shares to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to decline further. The economies of the United States, the European Union and other parts of the world continue to experience relatively slow growth or remain in recession and exhibit weak economic trends. The credit markets in the United States and Europe have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government and state governments and European authorities continue to implement a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, severely disrupted and volatile. Since 2008, lending by financial institutions worldwide remains at very low levels compared to the period preceding 2008. Continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China's GDP is estimated to remain unchanged at approximately 7.7% for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to approximately 7.7% for the year ended December 31, 2012, and continues to remain below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the European Union may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our results of operations and ability to grow our fleet would be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. 7 The instability of the euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which was established on September 27, 2012 to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Furthermore, in July 2012, the European Central Bank stated its commitment to take necessary action within its mandate in order to save the Euro. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for drybulk cargoes and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States, Europe, including Cyprus, and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline. In recent years, the United States, Europe, and other parts of the world exhibited deteriorating economic trends and significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity of the credit markets. The United States federal government and state governments, the European Union, and other foreign governments have implemented and are continuing to implement a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. A number of financial institutions experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for assets held by such institutions, particularly the reduction in the value of their mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolios. These difficulties have been compounded by a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit or refinance our debt. In addition, these difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations. For example, on March 25, 2013, two of our credit facilities with CPB, one of Cyprus's largest banks, with outstanding indebtedness of $138.8 million, were taken over by Piraeus Bank S.A., or Piraeus Bank. As part of the Cypriot international bail-in plan, Piraeus Bank has taken over the operations of the Cypriot Banks in Greece, including CPB. Our loan facilities and operating accounts were transferred to Piraeus Bank, with whom we concluded the process of restructuring our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the world economy is currently facing a number of other challenges. This includes (i) uncertainty related to the European sovereign debt crisis and certain countries' ability to refinance their sovereign debt, such as Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and Italy, (ii) uncertainty related to the course of the economic recovery in the United States and (iii) the possibility of an economic slowdown in Asian economies such as China, Japan and South Korea. 8 We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, could cause the trading price of our common shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market to decline precipitously and could cause the price of our common shares to continue to decline or impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We maintain cash with a limited number of financial institutions including financial institutions that may be located in Greece, which will subject us to credit risk. We maintain all of our cash with a limited number of financial institutions, including institutions that are located in Greece. These financial institutions located in Greece may be subsidiaries of international banks or Greek financial institutions. Economic conditions in Greece have been, and continue to be, severely disrupted and volatile, and as a result of sovereign weakness, Moody's Investor Services Inc. has downgraded the bank financial strength ratings, as well as the deposit and debt ratings, of several Greek banks to reflect their weakening stand-alone financial strength and the anticipated additional pressures stemming from the country's challenged economic prospects. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues and expenses. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · crew strikes and/or boycotts; · marine disaster; · piracy; 9 · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; and · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Upon redelivery of vessels at the end of a period time or voyage time charter, we may be obligated to repurchase bunkers on board at prevailing market prices, which could be materially higher than fuel prices at the inception of the charter period. In addition, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense that we would incur with respect to vessels operating on voyage charter. We may employ vessels we acquire in the future on the spot charter market. Spot charter contracts generally provide that the vessel owner bears the cost of fuel in the form of bunkers, which is a material operating expense. We do not intend to hedge our fuel costs thus an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may affect in a negative way our profitability and our cash flows. We may become dependent on spot charters in the volatile shipping markets which may have an adverse impact on stable cash flows and revenues. We may employ vessels we acquire in the future on the spot charter market. The spot charter market is highly competitive and rates within this market are subject to volatile fluctuations, while longer-term period time charters provide income at predetermined rates over more extended periods of time. When we spot charter vessels we may acquire in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in keeping all the vessels fully employed in these short-term markets or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable the vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in charter rates could affect the value of our fleet and could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows with the result that our ability to pay debt service to our lenders could be further impaired. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and ability to service our debt or pay dividends in the future. We will operate vessels we may acquire in the future in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. To the extent we operate vessels in the spot market, this seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The dry bulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel schedule and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ending June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ending December 31 and March 31. While this seasonality will not affect our operating results as long as our fleet is employed on period time charters, if our vessels are employed in the spot market in the future, seasonality may materially affect our operating results. 10 Vessels we may acquire in the future may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States, the European Union or other governments that could adversely affect our reputation and the market price of our common stock. From time to time, on charterers' instructions, vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism including Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expanded the application of the prohibitions to additional activities of non-U.S. companies and introduced limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, in 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the "Joint Plan of Action" ("JPOA"). Under the JPOA it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is used only for peaceful purposes, the U.S. and E.U. would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months. On January 20, 2014, the U.S. and E.U. indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures include, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals, and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 until July 20, 2014. Although it is our intention to comply with the provisions of the JPOA, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future as such regulations and U.S. Sanctions may be amended over time, and the U.S. retains the authority to revoke the aforementioned relief if Iran fails to meet its commitments under the JPOA. We believe that we are currently in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations. In order to maintain compliance, we are monitoring and reviewing the movement of our vessels on a frequent basis. During 2013, two of our chartered vessels made two port calls to Iran, representing approximately 1.4% of the approximately 140 total calls on worldwide ports made by our vessels during 2013. These two port calls occurred while the respective vessels where chartered to third parties and operated at the instructions of the charterers or sub-charterers. 11 All or most of our future charters shall include provisions and trade exclusion clauses prohibiting the vessels from calling on ports where there is an existing U.S embargo. Furthermore as of the date hereof, neither the Company nor its subsidiaries have ever entered into or have any future plans to enter into, directly or indirectly, any contracts, agreements or other arrangements with the governments of Iran, Syria, Sudan or Cuba or any entities controlled by the governments of these countries, including any entities organized in these countries. Due to the nature of our business and the evolving nature of the foregoing sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance at all times in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of vessels we may acquire in the future are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, ballast water management, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. These requirements include, but are not limited to, European Union Regulations, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, and regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, including but not limited to, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast water, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. Furthermore, the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our available cash. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale price or useful life of vessels we may acquire in the future. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. 12 Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. Since the events of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security, such as the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. These security procedures can result in delays in the loading, discharging or trans-shipment and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers and, in some cases, carriers. Future changes to the existing security procedures may be implemented that could affect the dry bulk sector. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped, resulting in a decreased demand for vessels and have a negative effect on our business, revenues and customer relations. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although the frequency of sea piracy worldwide decreased during 2013 to its lowest level since 2009, sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which vessels we may acquire in the future are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in Korea, the Middle East, including Egypt, and North Africa, and the presence of U.S. and other armed forces in the Middle East, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The operation of dry bulk carriers has particular operational risks which could affect our earnings and cash flow. The operation of vessels such as dry bulk carriers has certain particular risks. With a dry bulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, dry bulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, dry bulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during discharging operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during discharging procedures may affect a vessel's seaworthiness while at sea. Hull fractures in dry bulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels' holds. If a dry bulk carrier suffers flooding in her forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel's bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends in the future. 13 If any of the vessels we may acquire in the future fails to maintain its class certification and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, or special survey, or if any scheduled class survey takes longer or is more expensive than anticipated, this could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS. A vessel must undergo annual, intermediate and special surveys. The vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. At the beginning, in between and in the end of this cycle, every vessel is required to undergo inspection of her underwater parts that usually includes dry-docking. These surveys and dry-dockings can be costly and can result in delays in returning a vessel to operation. The cost of our fleet's surveys in 2013 totaled approximately $1 million. If any vessel does not maintain its class, the vessel will not be allowed to carry cargo between ports and cannot be employed or insured. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Because seafaring employees we may employ in the future are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings. Our future vessel-owning subsidiaries shall employ a large number of seafarers. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruptions could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. Maritime claimants could arrest vessels we may acquire in the future, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of the vessels we may acquire in the future could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one of vessels we may acquire in the future for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition vessels we may acquire in the future during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize vessels we may acquire in the future. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition vessels we may acquire in the future for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of vessels we may acquire in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution). We may not be adequately insured against all risks or our insurers may not pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. Company Specific Risk Factors Our independent auditors have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The existence of such report may adversely affect our stock price, our business relationships and our ability to raise capital. There is no assurance that we will not receive a similar report for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. Accordingly, the financial statements did not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts, the amounts and classification of liabilities, or any other adjustments that might result in the event we are unable to continue as a going concern, except for the current classification of debt. However, there are material uncertainties related to events or conditions which raise substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, we may be unable to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued their opinion with an explanatory paragraph in connection with our audited financial statements included in this annual report that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Following our restructuring, the Company has initiated a process of reviewing the market in order to identify suitable vessel acquisitions. We expect to finance these acquisitions with equity provided through capital markets transactions and our shareholders and/or new loan arrangements. Although we believe that as a result of our acquisition efforts, we may overcome such doubt in the future, we cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact operate our business profitably or obtain sufficient financing to sustain our business, generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our independent registered public accounting firm's report on our future financial statements for any future period will not include a similar explanatory paragraph if we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition plan. Ernst & Young's, or any successor's expression of such doubt or our inability to overcome the factors leading to such doubt could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, our business relationships and ability to raise capital and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial prospects. We will not generate any revenues until we identify and acquire additional vessels. We do not currently have any operating vessels. We have initiated a process of reviewing the market in order to identify suitable vessel acquisitions. We expect to finance these acquisitions with equity provided through capital markets transactions and our shareholders and/or new loan arrangements. Our acquisition strategy focuses on newbuilding or secondhand dry bulk carriers, although we may acquire vessels in other sectors which we believe offer attractive investment opportunities. Until we identify and acquire additional vessels, we will not generate any revenues. However, we will continue to incur costs related to any efforts to identify other vessels for acquisition, interest expense for any debt we incur and general administrative expenses, including those related to being a public company. As a result, we will incur losses and are unlikely to be able to pay dividends prior to operating any vessels we may acquire. Furthermore, although we believe that our acquisition efforts will be successful, we cannot provide any assurance that we will in fact manage to acquire vessels and generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow. 15 If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to acquire vessels in the future. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · generate excess cash flow so that we can invest without jeopardizing our ability to cover current and foreseeable working capital needs (including debt service); · raise equity and obtain required financing for our existing and new operations; · locate and acquire suitable vessels; · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrate any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; · hire, train and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · enhance our customer base; and · manage expansion. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and we may incur significant additional expenses and losses in connection therewith. Newbuilding projects are subject to risks that could cause delays. We may enter into newbuilding contracts in connection with our vessel acquisition strategy. Newbuilding construction projects are subject to risks of delay inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction, failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, financial or operating difficulties experienced by equipment vendors or the shipyard, unanticipated actual or purported change orders, inability to obtain required permits or approvals, design or engineering changes and work stoppages and other labor disputes, adverse weather conditions or any other events of force majeure. Yards' failure to complete the project on time may result in the delay of revenue from the vessel. Any such failure or delay could have a material adverse effect on our operating results as we will continue to incur other costs to operate our business. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessel off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required or anticipated repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. We will not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Typically, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. 16 Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We inspected all of our second hand vessels, which we acquired from both related and unrelated third parties, considered the age and condition of the vessels in budgeting for their operating, insurance and maintenance costs, and if we acquire additional secondhand vessels in the future, we may encounter higher operating and maintenance costs due to the age and condition of those additional vessels. Substantial debt levels could limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding debt of $134.9 million. As of the date of this annual report, we have completed the restructuring of our debt. However, we anticipate that we may incur significant future secured indebtedness in connection with the acquisition of vessels, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying such vessels or securing such debt financing. Significant levels of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may be unavailable on favorable terms; · we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and any future dividends to our shareholders; · our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our future indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, as well as the level of future interest rates applicable to our outstanding indebtedness. If our operating income is not sufficient to service our future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions, such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, a lack of liquidity in the debt and equity markets could hinder our ability to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on favorable terms in the future. 17 The value of our vessels has fluctuated, and the value of vessels we may acquire in the future may continue to fluctuate significantly, due in large part to the sharp decline in the world economy and the charter market. A significant decline in vessel values could result in losses when we sell our vessels or could result in a requirement that we write down their carrying value, which would adversely affect our earnings. In addition, a decline in vessel values could adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital and would likely cause us to violate certain covenants in our loan agreements that relate to vessel value. The market value of our vessels has historically fluctuated significantly based on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates. Since the end of 2008, the market value of our vessels dropped significantly due to, among other things, the substantial decline in charter rates. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $44.8 million on goodwill and an impairment charge of $4.5 million on our vessels. No indication of impairment existed as of December 31, 2009, or December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $12.9 million on goodwill and $188.9 million on our vessels. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $4.4 million on goodwill and $147.1 million on our vessels. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded a net impairment charge of $3.6 million on our vessels. There can be no assurance as to how long charter rates and vessel values will remain at the current low levels or whether they will improve to any significant degree. Consequently, we may have to record further impairments of vessels we may acquire in the future and goodwill. The market value of vessels we may acquire in the future may increase or decrease in the future depending on the following factors: · economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry in general; · supply of dry bulk vessels, including newbuildings; · demand for dry bulk vessels; · scrap values; · types, sizes and ages of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · competition from other shipping companies; · cost of newbuildings; · technological advances; · new regulatory requirements from governments or self-regulated organizations; and · prevailing level of charter rates. 18 In addition, because the market value of vessels we may acquire in the future may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. In addition, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment, we test the carrying value of the vessels in our financial statements, based upon their earning capacity and remaining useful lives. Earning capacity is measured by the vessels' expected earnings under their charters. If we determine that the vessels' carrying values should be reduced, we would recognize an impairment charge on our financial statements that would result in a potentially significant charge against our earnings and a reduction in our shareholders' equity. Such impairment adjustment could also hinder our ability to raise capital. If for any reason we sell our vessels at a time when prices have fallen, the sale proceeds may be less than that vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, and we would incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. Finally, a decline in vessel values would likely cause us to violate certain covenants in our loan agreement that require vessel values to equal or exceed a stated percentage of the amount of our loans. Such violations could result in a default under our loan agreements. The failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the dry bulk shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. In addition, in challenging market conditions, there have been reports of charterers, including some of our charterers, renegotiating their charters or defaulting on their obligations under charter agreements and our customers may fail to pay charterhire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters would be at lower rates given the currently decreased charter rate levels, particularly in the dry bulk carrier market. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could suffer significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends in the future and comply with covenants in our loan agreements. Rising crew costs may adversely affect our profits. Crew costs are expected to be a significant expense for us under charters for vessels we may acquire in the future. Recently, the limited supply of and increased demand for qualified crew, due to the increase in the size of the global shipping fleet, has created upward pressure on crewing costs, which we generally bear under our period time and spot charters. Increases in crew costs may adversely affect our profitability. The aging of a fleet we may acquire in the future may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. As of the date of this annual report, we do not own a fleet of vessels. Should we proceed to acquire vessels in the future, as vessels age, they may become less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain and will not be as advanced as recently constructed vessels due to improvements in design, technology and engineering. Rates for cargo insurance, paid by charterers, also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for conversions, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Also, charterers actively discriminate against hiring older vessels. For example, Rightship, the ship vetting service founded by Rio Tinto and BHP-Billiton which has become the major vetting service in the dry bulk shipping industry, ranks the suitability of vessels based on a scale of one to five stars. Most major carriers will not charter a vessel that Rightship has vetted with fewer than three stars. Therefore, as vessels age, we may not be able to operate these vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. 19 In addition, unless we maintain cash reserves for vessel replacement, we may be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives. We estimate the useful life of our vessels to be 30 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues we earn by chartering our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement would not be available for other cash needs or dividends. Vessels we may acquire in the future may suffer damage and we may face unexpected repair costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If vessels we may acquire in the future suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a shipyard facility. The costs of repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of dividends in the future. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay repair costs not covered by our insurance. We are exposed to U.S. Dollar and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations that could harm our reported revenue and results of operations. We generate all of our revenues and incur the majority of our operating expenses in U.S. Dollars, but we currently incur many of our general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro. Because such portion of our expenses is incurred in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, our expenses may from time to time increase relative to our revenues as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, which could affect the amount of net income that we report in future periods. We may use financial derivatives to operationally hedge some of our currency exposure. Our use of financial derivatives involves certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedged position could exceed the nominal amount invested in the instrument and the risk that the counterparty to the derivative transaction may be unable or unwilling to satisfy its contractual obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our results. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy financial obligations or to pay dividends. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, and the laws of Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, where our vessel-owning subsidiaries are incorporated, and the laws of Liberia where some of our formerly owned subsidiaries were incorporated, which regulate the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may not exercise its discretion to pay dividends in the future. 20 In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends in the future will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends if the company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend and dividends may be declared and paid out of our operating surplus; but in this case, there is no such surplus. Dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will also be subject to our satisfaction of certain financial covenants contained in our credit facilities and certain waivers related thereto. We may be unable to pay dividends in the anticipated amounts or at all. If we fail to manage our growth properly, we may not be able to expand our fleet if we desire to do so, adversely affecting our overall financial position. We may acquire vessels in the future and expand our fleet further if desirable opportunities arise. Our growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels at competitive prices; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · enhancing our customer base; · managing our expansion; and · obtaining required financing, which could include debt, equity or combinations thereof. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers, integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures, identifying new and profitable charter opportunities for vessels, and complying with new loan covenants. We have not identified further expansion opportunities at this time, and the nature and timing of any such expansion is uncertain. We may not be successful in growing further and may incur significant expenses and losses. We face strong competition, and we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to obtain charters for vessels we may acquire in the future in highly competitive markets in which our market share is insufficient to enforce any degree of pricing discipline. Although we believe that no single competitor has a dominant position in the markets in which we compete, we are aware that certain competitors may be able to devote greater financial and other resources to their activities than we can, resulting in a significant competitive threat to us. Competition for the transportation of dry bulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, customer relationships, operating expertise, professional reputation and size, location, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets. We cannot give assurances that we will continue to compete successfully with our competitors or that these factors will not erode our competitive position in the future. 21 Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also on the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our claim records but also on the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends in the future. We may not be able to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success will depend to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We currently have one executive officer, our Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer, one general counsel and a support staff of ten employees. Effective October 1, 2012, our current chief executive officer succeeded our former chief executive officer, effective October 1, 2013 our current Chief Executive Officer succeeded our former Chairman in his position as Chairman and effective November 1, 2013 our current Chief Executive Officer succeeded our former Chief Financial Officer as Interim Chief Financial Officer. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and the ability of our management to recruit and hire suitable employees. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose vessels we may acquire in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have procured hull and machinery insurance and protection and indemnity insurance, which include environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance for our fleet. We do not expect to maintain for all of vessels we may acquire in the future insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result from the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies may contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. Moreover, insurers may default on claims they are required to pay. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for vessels we may acquire in the future. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, the deficiency may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 22 Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could result in fines, criminal penalties, and an adverse effect on our business. We may operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is currently unable to inspect the audit work and practices of auditors operating in Greece, including our auditor. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with the performance of audits of financial statements filed with the Commission. Certain European Union countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such European Union countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB has concluded cooperative agreements within the European Union with the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and, most recently, Finland and France. Additionally, the PCAOB has entered into cooperative agreements with Switzerland and Norway, and with several non-European regulators in North America, the Middle East, Asia, and Australia. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, the PCAOB is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike the shareholders of most U.S. public companies, our shareholders are deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. The PCAOB continues to pursue additional agreements with audit oversight authorities in other European Union countries and jurisdictions around the world. We depend on our commercial and technical managers to operate our business and our business could be harmed if they fail to perform their services satisfactorily. Pursuant to our management agreements, EST provided us with technical, general administrative and support services (including vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance, assistance with regulatory compliance, freight management, accounting related to vessels, provisions, bunkering and operation) and M/S Fleet and Wallem provide us with technical management services for certain of our vessels. Our operational success depended significantly upon EST's, M/S Fleet's and Wallem's satisfactory performance of these services. Our business would be harmed if EST, M/S Fleet or Wallem failed to perform these services satisfactorily. As of December 31, 2013 we owed EST approximately $9 million. In addition, if the management agreement were to be terminated or if its terms were to be altered, our business could be adversely affected, as we may not be able to immediately replace such services, and even if replacement services were immediately available, the terms offered could be less favorable than those under our management agreement. Our ability to compete for and enter into new period time and spot charters and to expand our relationships with our existing charterers for vessels will may acquire in the future will depend largely on our relationship with our commercial manager, Safbulk, and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If Safbulk suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: · renew existing charters upon their expiration; 23 · obtain new charters; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; · maintain satisfactory relationships with our charterers and suppliers; and · successfully execute our business strategies. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Management fees will be payable to our technical managers regardless of our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to our management agreement with EST, M/S Fleet and Wallem, we paid a fee of approximately $450, $335 and $286, per day per vessel, respectively, for providing technical, support and administrative services. The management fees do not cover expenses such as voyage expenses, vessel operating expenses, maintenance expenses, crewing costs, insurance premiums, commissions and certain public company expenses such as directors' and officers' liability insurance, legal and accounting fees and other similar third party expenses, which are reimbursed by us. The management fees are payable whether or not our vessels are employed, and regardless of our profitability, and we have no ability to require our technical managers to reduce the management fees if our profitability decreases, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to outsource, the technical management and commercial management of part of fleet we may acquire in the future to companies that are affiliated with members of the Restis family, which may create conflicts of interest. We expect to continue to outsource, the technical management and commercial management of part of vessels we may acquire in the future to EST and Safbulk, companies that are affiliated with members of the Restis family. Companies affiliated with members of the Restis family own and may acquire vessels that compete with the fleet we may acquire in the future. Both EST and Safbulk have responsibilities and relationships to owners other than us which could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and EST or Safbulk, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering of the vessels in our fleet versus dry bulk carriers managed by other companies affiliated with members of the Restis family. There can be no assurance that they will resolve conflicts in our favor. The majority of the members of our shipping committee are appointees nominated by affiliates of members of the Restis family, which could create conflicts of interest detrimental to us. Our board of directors has created a shipping committee, which has been delegated exclusive authority to consider and vote upon all matters involving shipping and vessel finance, subject to certain limitations. Affiliates of members of the Restis family have the right to appoint two of the three members of the shipping committee and as a result such affiliates will effectively control all decisions with respect to our shipping operations that do not involve a transaction with a Restis affiliate. Mr Stamatis Tsantanis, Ms. Christina Anagnostara and Mr. Elias Culucundis currently serve on our shipping committee. The Restis affiliate shareholders hold approximately 85% of our outstanding common stock which limits your ability to influence our actions. As of the date of this annual report, the Restis affiliate shareholders own approximately 85% of our outstanding common stock. Our major shareholders have the power to exert considerable influence over our actions and matters which require shareholder approval, which limits your ability to influence our actions. 24 We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, which may negatively affect the ability of shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and all of our assets are, and will be, located outside of the United States. Our business is operated primarily from our offices in Athens, Greece. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us, or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, you may have difficulty enforcing, both within and outside of the United States, judgments you may obtain in the United States courts against us or these persons in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal or state securities laws. There is also substantial doubt that the courts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or Greece would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on United States federal or state securities laws. Although you may bring an original action against us or our affiliates in the courts of the Marshall Islands based on U.S. laws, and the courts of the Marshall Islands may impose civil liability, including monetary damages, against us, or our affiliates for a cause of action arising under Marshall Islands laws, it may be impracticable for you to do so given the geographic location of the Marshall Islands. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Marshall Islands, please read "Enforceability of Civil Liabilities." We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common stock. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. We should not be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. Based upon our operations as described herein, our income from time charters should not be treated as passive income for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC. Accordingly, our income from our time chartering activities should not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income should not constitute passive assets. 25 There is substantial legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept this position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if the nature and extent of our operations changed. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and certain information reporting requirements. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, or the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of their shares of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of the shares of our common stock. See Item 10.E "Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences – U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders - Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Based on the current and expected composition of our and our subsidiaries' assets and income, it is not anticipated that we will be treated as a PFIC. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of each such taxable year. Accordingly there can be no assurances regarding our status as a PFIC for any future taxable year. See the discussion in the section entitled "Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences — U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders —Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules." We urge U.S. Holders to consult with their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as us and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, exclusive of certain U.S. territories and possessions, may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We believe that we qualify for the benefits of Section 883 of the Code. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us or any one of our ship-operating companies to fail to qualify for this tax exemption and thereby subject us to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For example, we would fail to qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular tax year if shareholders, each of whom owned, actually or under applicable constructive ownership rules, a 5% or greater interest in the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our common stock, owned in the aggregate, 50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and "qualified shareholders" as defined by the applicable Treasury Regulations did not own, directly or under applicable constructive ownership rules, sufficient shares in our closely-held block of common stock to preclude the shares in the closely-held block that are not so owned from representing 50% or more of the value of our common stock for more than half of the number of days during the taxable year. For the 2013 taxable year, we believe that 50% or more of the vote and value of our common stock was held by 5% shareholders. Although we believe that each of our 5% shareholders is a "qualified shareholder" for purposes of Section 883, we would not qualify for the Section 883 exemption unless we received from those shareholders, and each intermediary entity in the chain of ownership, certain beneficial ownership and intermediary statements substantiating those shareholder's beneficial ownership and status as "qualified shareholders." 26 Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on the tax-exempt status of ourselves or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on the shipping income such companies derive during the year that is attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this taxation would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that have in the past and could in the future affect our stock price are: · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · our lenders' willingness to extend our loan covenant waivers, if necessary; · changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · changes in earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; · speculation in the press or investment community about our business or the shipping industry generally; · strategic actions by us or our competitors such as acquisitions or restructurings; · the thin trading market for our common stock, which makes it somewhat illiquid; · the current ineligibility of our common stock to be the subject of margin loans because of its low current market price; · regulatory developments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · general market conditions; and · domestic and international economic, market and currency factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for dry bulk shipping and shipping stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 27 Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock was listed on the NASDAQ Global Market until December 20, 2012 and effective December 21, 2012 the Company transferred its stock listing to the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock trades under the symbol "SHIP." Our ability to retain our listing is contingent upon compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements. The listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. On January 28, 2011, we were notified by NASDAQ that we were no longer in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) because the closing bid price of our common stock for 30 consecutive business days, from December 14, 2010 to January 26, 2011, had been below the minimum $1.00 per share bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. In response, we conducted a 1-for-15 reverse stock split on June 24, 2011, or the Reverse Stock Split, which was approved at a special meeting of our shareholders on January 4, 2011. We regained compliance during July 2011 when, during the applicable grace period, the closing bid price of our common stock was at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On January 24, 2012, we were notified by NASDAQ that we were no longer in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(C) because the market value of the publicly held shares of our common stock for 30 consecutive business days, from December 6, 2011 to January 23, 2012 had been below the minimum $5.0 million market value of publicly held shares requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. This notification had no effect on the listing of the Company's common stock, and the applicable grace period to regain compliance was 180 calendar days, expiring on July 23, 2012. The Company regained compliance at the end of February 2012, when during the applicable grace period the Company's minimum market value of our publicly held shares was $5.0 million or greater for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On June 29, 2012, we were notified by NASDAQ that we were no longer in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(b)(1)(C) because the market value of the publicly held shares of our common stock for 30 consecutive business days, from May 16, 2012 to June 28, 2012 had been below the minimum $5.0 million market value of publicly held shares requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. The applicable grace period to regain compliance was 180 calendar days, expiring on December 26, 2012. Prior to the expiration of this grace period, we transferred the listing of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market, effective on December 21, 2012. Our common stock continues to trade under the symbol "SHIP" and this matter is now closed. On October 30, 2013, the Company received a Staff Delisting Determination letter from the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") notifying the Company that, due to non-compliance with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders' equity requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(b), trading of the Company's common stock will be suspended unless the Company requests an appeal of this delisting determination by November 6, 2013. In connection to the delisting determination the Company requested an appeal and was granted a hearing before the NASDAQ Hearings Panel (the "Panel"). The request stayed the suspension of trading and delisting of the Company's common shares from the NASDAQ Capital Market pending the Panel's decision. On December 11, 2013, the Company presented to the Panel the status of its previously announced financial restructuring plan and its plan to establish compliance with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders' equity requirement. On January 9, 2014, the Panel granted the request of the Company for extension on the continued listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market until April 28, 2014 in order for the Company to demonstrate compliance with the minimum $2.5 million stockholders' equity requirement. 28 The outcome could negatively impact the trading of our common shares and our ability to remain listed on NASDAQ. See "Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments." The declaration and payment of dividends will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors. Our board of directors may not declare dividends in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our loan agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends to shareholders, overall market conditions, and other factors. Our board of directors may not declare dividends in the future. There may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash, if any, that is available for the payment of dividends based upon, among other things: · the rates we obtain from future charters; · the level of our operating costs; · the level of our general and administrative costs; · the number of unscheduled off-hire days and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of vessels we may acquire in the future; · vessel acquisitions and related financings; · restrictions in any future debt facilities; · prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; · the amount of cash reserves established by our board of directors; and · restrictions under Marshall Islands law. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws could make it difficult for shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws could make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of our management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include those that: · authorize our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; 29 · provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · require a super-majority vote in order to amend the provisions regarding our classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · permit the removal of any director from office at any time, with or without cause, at the request of the shareholder group entitled to designate such director; · allow vacancies on the board of directors to be filled by the shareholder group entitled to name the director whose resignation or removal led to the occurrence of the vacancy; and · prevent our board of directors from dissolving the shipping committee or altering the duties or composition of the shipping committee without an affirmative vote of not less than 80% of the board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future equity offerings. Issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the voting power of our shareholders and have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation currently authorize our Board to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, with respect to, among other things, dividends, conversion, voting, redemption, liquidation and the number of shares constituting any series subject to prior shareholders' approval. If our Board determines to issue preferred shares, such issuance may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. The issuance of preferred shares with voting and conversion rights may also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common shares. This could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. You may experience dilution as a result of the exercise of our warrants. We have an obligation to issue shares of common stock under our underwriters' warrants which are outstanding and exercisable to purchase an aggregate of 75,927 of our common shares. The sale of the common shares issued upon such events, or the perception that such events may occur, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, we may issue additional securities in the future that may have a dilutive effect to the holders of our common shares. 30 