Risk Factors Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that have in the past and could in the future affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • our lenders’ willingness to extend our loan covenant waivers, if necessary; • changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; • changes in earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community about our business or the shipping industry generally; • strategic actions by us or our competitors such as acquisitions or restructurings; • the thin trading market for our common stock, which makes it somewhat illiquid; • the current ineligibility of our common stock to be the subject of margin loans because of its low current market price; • regulatory developments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic, market and currency factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for dry bulk shipping and shipping stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Our ability to retain our listing is contingent upon compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements. The listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. We are currently in compliance with the NASDAQ listing rules and our common stock is currently trading above the minimum bid price, however, if the bid price for our stock were to drop below $1.00, our common stock listing may be moved to the NASDAQ Capital Market, which is a lower tier market, or our common stock may be delisted and traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board network. Moving our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and the delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could further depress our stock price and materially adversely affect our ability to raise further capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from NASDAQ could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Our board of directors has suspended the payment of cash dividends as a result of certain restrictions in waivers we received from Marfin relating to our loan covenants and prevailing market conditions in the international shipping industry. Until such market conditions improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. In light of a lower freight environment and a highly challenging financing environment that has resulted in a substantial decline in the international shipping industry, our board of directors, beginning on February 4, 2009, suspended the cash dividend on our common stock. Our dividend policy will be assessed by our board of directors from time to time; however, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends until market conditions improve. Further, the waiver we have received from Marfin relating to our loan covenant restricts our ability to pay dividends. Therefore, there can be no assurances that, if we were to determine to resume paying cash dividends, Marfin would provide any required consent. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, which may negatively affect the ability of shareholders to protect their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and by the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and our directors and officers are non-U.S. residents. Although you may bring an original action in the courts of the Marshall Islands or obtain a judgment against us or our directors or management based on U.S. laws in the event you believe your rights as a shareholder have been infringed, it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our directors or management. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and all of our assets are, and will be, located outside of the United States. Our business is operated primarily from our offices in Athens, Greece. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us, or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Although you may bring an original action against us or our affiliates in the courts of the Marshall Islands based on U.S. laws, and the courts of the Marshall Islands may impose civil liability, including monetary damages, against us, or our affiliates for a cause of action arising under Marshall Islands laws, it may impracticable for you to do so given the geographic location of the Marshall Islands. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Marshall Islands, please read “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, as well as the terms and conditions of a Voting Agreement, could make it difficult for shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, as well as the terms and conditions of the Voting Agreement could make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of our management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include those that: • authorize our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without shareholder approval; • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • require a super-majority vote in order to amend the provisions regarding our classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • permit the removal of any director from office at any time, with or without cause, at the request of the shareholder group entitled to designate such director; • allow vacancies on the board of directors to be filled by the shareholder group entitled to name the director whose resignation or removal led to the occurrence of the vacancy; • require that our board of directors fill any vacancies on the shipping committee with the nominees selected by the party that nominated the person whose resignation or removal has caused such vacancies; and • prevent our board of directors from dissolving the shipping committee or altering the duties or composition of the shipping committee without an affirmative vote of not less than 80% of the board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common stock. We generally will be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. For purposes of these tests, passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as such term is defined in the section entitled “Item 10E. Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company Regulations”) held our common stock, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the current and expected composition of our and our subsidiaries’ assets and income, it is not anticipated that we will be treated as a PFIC. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly there can be no assurances regarding our status as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. See the discussion in the section entitled “Item 10E. Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company Regulations.” We urge U.S. Holders to consult with their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as our subsidiaries and us, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, exclusive of certain U.S. territories and possessions, may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax 26 Table of Contents without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations recently promulgated thereunder. For the 2008 tax year, we claimed the benefits of the Section 883 tax exemption for our ship-owning subsidiaries. We expect that our ship-owning subsidiaries will again claim the benefits of Section 883 for the 2009 tax year. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us or any one of our ship-operating companies to fail to qualify for this tax exemption and thereby subject us to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. For example, we would fail to qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular tax year if shareholders, each of whom owned, actually or under applicable constructive ownership rules, a 5% or greater interest in the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, owned in the aggregate 50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, and “qualified shareholders” as defined by the regulations to Section 883 did not own, directly or under applicable constructive ownership rules, sufficient shares in our closely-held block of stock to preclude the shares in the closely-held block that are not so owned from representing 50% or more of the value of our stock for more than half of the number of days during the taxable year. Establishing such ownership by qualified shareholders will depend upon the status of certain of our direct or indirect shareholders as residents of qualifying jurisdictions and whether those shareholders own their shares through bearer share arrangements and will also require these shareholders’ compliance with ownership certification procedures attesting that they are residents of qualifying jurisdictions, and each intermediary’s or other person’s similar compliance in the chain of ownership between us and such shareholders. On August 12, 2009, we closed on the acquisition of a 50% controlling interest in BET, which owns a fleet of five vessels. Qualification of the BET fleet for U.S. tax exemption for the 2008 and 2009 tax years has not yet been achieved and depends on approval from the IRS for BET to make an election with the IRS to be treated as a disregarded entity for those tax years. If the IRS does not approve of this election, then the vessels in the BET fleet will be subject to US taxation on their US source income for the 2008 and 2009 tax years. We have entered into an agreement with the parent company of the former 50% owner of BET to indemnify us for any adverse tax consequences to us should the IRS decide not to approve of the election. Further, if the IRS does not approve of this election, we will not qualify under Section 883 of the Code for a US tax exemption on any US source income we receive from the BET vessels for the 2010 tax year onward unless the other 50% owner of the BET vessels also qualifies for a US tax exemption under Section 883. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on the tax-exempt status of the vessel owning subsidiaries of the BET fleet, that of any of our other subsidiaries, or us. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 4% U.S. federal income tax on the shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the U.S. The imposition of this taxation would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. The enactment of proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute qualified dividend income eligible for a preferential rate of United States federal income taxation. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate that would deny the preferential rate of U.S. federal income tax currently imposed on qualified dividend income with respect to dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation, unless the non-U.S. corporation either is eligible for benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States or is created or organized under the laws of a foreign country that has a comprehensive income tax system. Because the Marshall Islands has not entered into a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States and imposes only limited taxes on corporations organized under its laws, it is unlikely that we could satisfy either of these requirements. Consequently, if this legislation were enacted, the preferential rate of U.S. federal income tax discussed under “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Distributions on Our Common Stock” may no 27 Table of Contents longer be applicable to dividends received from us. As of the date hereof, it is not possible to predict with any certainty whether the proposed legislation will be enacted. We, as a non-U.S. company, have elected to comply with the less stringent reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, as a foreign private issuer. We are a Marshall Islands company, and our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws, the BCA and the common law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. We provide reports under the Exchange Act as a non-U.S. company with foreign private issuer status. Some of the differences between the reporting obligations of a foreign private issuer and those of a U.S. domestic company are as follows: Foreign private issuers are not required to file their annual report on Form 20-F until six months after the end of each fiscal year while U.S. domestic issuers that are accelerated filers are required to file their annual report on Form 10-K within 75 days after the end of each fiscal year. However, in August 2008, the SEC adopted changes in the content and timing of disclosure requirements for foreign private issuers, including requiring foreign private issuers to file their annual report on Form 20-F no later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, after a three-year transition period. Additionally, other new disclosure requirements that will be added to Form 20-F include disclosure of disagreements with or changes in certifying accountants, and significant differences in corporate governance practices as compared to United States issuers. In addition, foreign private issuers are not required to file regular quarterly reports on Form 10-Q that contain unaudited financial and other specified information. However, if a foreign private issuer makes interim reports available to shareholders, the foreign private issuer is required to submit copies of such reports to the SEC on a Form 6-K. Foreign private issuers are also not required to file current reports on Form 8-K upon the occurrence of specified significant events. However, foreign private issuers are required to file reports on Form 6-K disclosing whatever information the foreign private issuer has made or is required to make public pursuant to its home country’s laws or distributes to its shareholders and that is material to the issuer and its subsidiaries. Foreign private issuers are also exempt from the requirements under the U.S. proxy rules prescribing the content of proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders. Although the NASDAQ Stock Market does require that a listed company prepare and deliver to shareholders annual reports and proxy statements in connection with all meeting of shareholders, these documents will not be required to comply with the detailed content requirements of the SEC’s proxy regulations. Officers, directors and 10% or more shareholders of foreign private issuers are exempt from requirements to file Forms 3, 4 and 5 to report their beneficial ownership of the issuer’s common stock under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and are also exempt from the related short-swing profit recapture rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Foreign private issuers are also not required to comply with the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from, and you may not be provided with the benefits of, some of the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance requirements, including that: • a majority of our board of directors must be independent directors; • the compensation of our chief executive officer must be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; • our director nominees must be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • certain issuances of 20% or more of our common stock must be subject to shareholder approval. As a result, our independent directors may not have as much influence over our corporate policy as they would if we were not a foreign private issuer. 28 Table of Contents As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company. We are a holding company and will depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, all of which are, or upon their formation will be, wholly owned by us either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, and the laws of the Marshall Islands and the laws of the British Virgin Islands, where our vessel-owning subsidiaries are incorporated, which regulate the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. We only own 50% of BET, although we consolidate its results; in certain circumstances we could be required to sell our interest in BET or acquire the interest that we do not currently own. Since the date of our acquisition of a controlling interest in BET, we consolidate its results with ours. However, our equity interest is only 50%, and the other shareholder of BET is entitled to 50% of BET’s assets, earnings and any dividends paid by BET. Beginning in August 2010, the shareholders agreement between us and BET’s other shareholder, Mineral Transport, permits us or Mineral Transport to require the other shareholder to sell all of its BET shares or buy all of the shares of the offering party at a price set by the offering party. As a result of these provisions, we could be forced to sell our shares of BET at a price determined by Mineral Transport if we were unwilling or unable to purchase Mineral Transport’s shares at that price. We cannot assure you that we would have adequate funds to acquire Mineral Transport’s shares at the time any such offer were made. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future equity offerings. Issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the voting power of our shareholders and have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation currently authorize our Board to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, with respect to, among other things, dividends, conversion, voting, redemption, liquidation and the number of shares constituting any series subject to prior shareholders’ approval. If our Board determines to issue preferred shares, such issuance may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. The issuance of preferred shares with voting and conversion rights may also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common shares. This could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. You may experience dilution as a result of the exercise of our warrants. We have 38,984,667 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock issued and outstanding at an exercise price of $6.50 per share. In addition, we have assumed Seanergy Maritime’s obligation to issue 1,000,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock under 29 Table of Contents the unit purchase option it granted the underwriter in its initial public offering at an exercise price of $12.50 per unit. Lastly, we issued to Maxim Group LLC and Rodman & Renshaw, LLC, the joint book-running managers and representatives of the underwriters, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,138,917 shares. As a result, you may experience dilution if our outstanding warrants, the underwriter’s unit purchase option or the warrants underlying the underwriter’s unit purchase option are exercised. 