Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to Anchor Bancorp, our industry, and our market area. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and are subject to certain business limitations. Further, we may be subject to more severe future regulatory enforcement actions if our financial condition or performance weakens. Primarily because of its increased level of non-performing assets, on August 12, 2009, Anchor Bank became subject to the Order, issued with its consent, by the FDIC and DFI because they had reason to believe that Anchor Bank had engaged in unsafe and unsound banking practices and violations of law and/or regulations. The Order was terminated on September 5, 2012 as a result of the steps Anchor Bank took in complying with the Order and reducing its level of classified assets, augmenting management and improving the overall condition of Anchor Bank. In place of the Order, Anchor Bank entered into a Supervisory Directive with the DFI. The Supervisory Directive contains provisions concerning (i) the management and directors of Anchor Bank; (ii) restrictions on paying dividends; (iii) reductions of classified assets; (iv) maintaining Tier 1 capital in an amount equal to or exceeding 10% of Anchor Bank's total assets; (v) policies concerning the allowance for loan and lease losses ("ALLL"); and (vi) requirements to furnish a revised three-year business plan to improve Anchor Bank's profitability and progress reports to the FDIC and DFI. The Supervisory Directive will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the FDIC and DFI. Management has been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the Supervisory Directive. Compliance with the Supervisory Directive, however, is subject to a determination by the FDIC and DFI. The FDIC or DFI may determine, in its sole discretion, that we have not addressed the issues raised by the Supervisory Directive satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions taken by it. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations. The current weak economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Washington and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the five counties in which we operate, including the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, which we consider to be our primary market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, in the current economic downturn, Washington and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates. Continued weakness or a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline, possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets; • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and 51 • the amount of our low-cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At June 30, 2012, $82.7 million, or 28.0% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to-four single-family real property. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans reflected in our recent charge-off experience on these loans. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. Further, a significant amount of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our residential loans. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. In addition to residential mortgage loans, we originate construction and land loans, commercial and multi- family mortgage loans, commercial business loans, and consumer loans primarily within our market areas. At June 30, 2012, we had $212.7 million outstanding in non-residential loans, a decrease of $23.5 million compared to $236.2 million outstanding at June 30, 2011. For the year ended June 30, 2012, loans delinquent 30 days or more, including non-performing loans, decreased to $14.2 million, compared to $26.0 million at June 30, 2011. At June 30, 2012, delinquent loans represented 4.8% of total loans, including construction loans which represented 1.1% of total loans. For the comparable period in 2011, delinquent loans represented 7.8% of total loans, including construction loans which represented 2.3% of total loans. Many of these loans are perceived to have greater credit risk than residential real estate loans for a number of reasons, including those described below: Construction and Land Loans. At June 30, 2012, we had $13.8 million or 4.7% of total loans in construction and land loans. Included in this amount are $7.1 million of land loans to individuals at June 30, 2012. Since 2008, and as required by the Order, we have significantly decreased our origination of construction and land acquisition and development loans. Construction and land lending includes the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property's value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are for homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction as well as lot loans made to individuals for the future construction of a residence also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly affected by supply and demand conditions. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to independently repay principal and 52 interest. At June 30, 2012, $308,000 of our construction loans were to a builder for speculative residential construction. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of origination. At June 30, 2012, $3.5 million or 39.9% of our total construction and land loans were non-performing. Commercial and Multi-family Mortgage Loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated from the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. This risk is exacerbated in this current environment. As required by the Order, we implemented a plan to reduce the balance of these loans. At June 30, 2012, we had $139.3 million or 47.2% of total loans in commercial and multi-family mortgage loans. Commercial Business Loans. At June 30, 2012, we had $16.6 million or 5.6% of total loans in commercial business loans, however, we are currently planning on expanding our commercial business lending, subject to market conditions. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrower's cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and creditworthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. For more information about the credit risk we face with respect to these types of loans, see Item 1., “Business – Lending Activities – Commercial Business Lending.” Consumer Loans. We make secured and unsecured consumer loans. Our secured consumer loans are collateralized with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. At June 30, 2012, we had $43.0 million or 14.6% of total loans in consumer loans. Of this amount, $31.5 million were in home equity loans, some of which are loans in amounts for up to 100% of collateral value. For more information about the credit risk, we face with respect to these types of loans, see “Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.” Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk as the result of subprime loans. As of June 30, 2012, we held in our loan portfolio $6.4 million in one- to four-family mortgage loans ($4.5 million of which were fixed rate), $500,000 of automobile loans (all of which were fixed rate), $3.5 million of home equity loans (of which $3.0 million were fixed rate) and $200,000 of other types of consumer loans (all of which were fixed rate), which are considered “subprime” by federal banking regulators. The aggregate amount of loans considered subprime at June 30, 2012 was $10.5 million or 3.6% of our total loan portfolio. In exchange for the additional lender risk associated with these loans, these borrowers generally are required to pay a higher interest rate, and depending on the severity of the credit history, a lower loan-to-value ratio may be required than for a conforming loan borrower. At the time of loan origination, our subprime borrowers had an average Fair Isaac and Company, Incorporated, or FICO, credit score of 622 and a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 63%, which may be significantly understated if current 53 market values are used. A FICO score is a principal measure of credit quality and is one of the significant criteria we rely upon in our underwriting. Generally, a FICO score of 660 or higher indicates the borrower has an acceptable credit reputation. At June 30, 2012, $800,000 of our subprime loans was categorized as non-performing assets and all of these loans were categorized as nonaccrual. Subprime loans are generally considered to have an increased risk of delinquency and foreclosure than do conforming loans, especially when adjustable rate loans adjust to a higher interest rate. We had not experienced such increased delinquencies or foreclosures at June 30, 2012, however, our subprime loan portfolio will be adversely affected in the event of a further downturn in regional or national economic conditions. In addition, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense. Our concentration in non-owner occupied residential real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At June 30, 2012, $20.6 million, or 24.9% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio and 7.0% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At June 30, 2012, we had 17 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, with aggregate outstanding balances of $11.0 million, of which four loan relationships had an aggregate outstanding balance over $500,000. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. At June 30, 2012, all of our non-owner occupied residential mortgage loans were complying with their loan repayment terms, except for two loans which totaled $300,000 at that date. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land acquisition and development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land acquisition and development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. Our total non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans were $113.1 million or 38.3% of total capital at June 30, 2012 compared to $144.3 million or 246.5% of total capital at June 30, 2011. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us. 54 Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms, or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; • the duration of the loan; • the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and • changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which we believe is an appropriate reserve to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance is funded by provisions for loan losses charged to expense. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors, and management's expectations of future events; • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral; and • an unallocated reserve to provide for other credit losses inherent in our portfolio that may not have been contemplated in the other loss factors. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our provision for loan losses and net loan charge-offs have increased significantly in recent years and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended June 30, 2012 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $2.7 million compared to $8.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2011. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $2.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2012 compared to $17.6 million for the comparable period in 2011. Since 2007 we have experienced significant loan delinquencies and credit losses. However, at June 30, 2012, our total non-performing assets had decreased to $15.4 million compared to $26.9 million at June 30, 2011. We have also extended $1.8 million in construction loans that were otherwise due to permit completion of the project or to provide the borrower additional time to market the underlying 55 collateral. Most of these loans mature within 24 months. To the extent these loans are not further extended or the borrower cannot otherwise refinance with a third party lender our non-performing assets may increase further. If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses to increase our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.4% of total loans held for investment and 80.9% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2012. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. In addition, Western Washington and the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, where substantially all of the real and personal property securing our loans is located, is an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake could result in our significantly increasing our allowance for loan losses resulting in material losses to us, although we have not experienced any losses in the past ten years as a result of earthquake damage to collateral securing loans. See Item 1., “Business – Natural Disasters.” If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected. At June 30, 2012, our nonperforming assets which consist of nonaccruing loans and real estate owned, were $15.4 million, or 3.3% of total assets. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways: • we record interest income only on a cash basis for nonaccrual loans and any nonperforming securities and we do not record interest income for real estate owned; • we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses; • noninterest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment on nonperforming securities; • there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our real estate owned; and • the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our nonperforming assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to interest rate risk which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. 56 Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet. Decreases in noninterest income could adversely affect our return to profitability and if we cannot generate and increase our income our stock price may be adversely affected. Our net interest income has decreased steadily in recent years. We also face significant challenges that will hinder our ability to generate competitive returns. Our most significant challenge has been our low interest rate spread and margin during recent periods. As a result, we have become even more reliant on our noninterest income and have relied on significant gains on sales of assets in order to generate net income. We cannot continue to rely on these significant gains as these gains are subject to market and other risks. During the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 net interest income before provision for loan losses exceeded noninterest expense by $5.7 million and $6.5 million, respectively. While we have identified various strategic initiatives that we will pursue in our efforts to overcome these challenges and improve earnings, our strategic initiatives may not succeed in generating and increasing income. If we are unable to generate or increase income, our stock price may be adversely affected. In addition, we originate and sell residential mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our residential loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold can decrease our revenues and net income. Further, recent regulatory changes to the rules for overdraft fees for debit transactions and interchange fees have reduced our fee income, resulting in a reduction of our noninterest income. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% of total insured deposits as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020, which has increased assessments. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0% as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially mayl be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”) and other borrowings to fund our operations. At June 30, 2012, we had $64.9 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $43.2 million of available borrowing capacity. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial 57 services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. In addition, under the Order our ability to use brokered deposits as a source of liquidity is limited. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. These competitors primarily include national, regional and internet banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, mortgage banking finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors in these sectors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors including the following: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships; • the ability to expand our market position; • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; • the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; • customer satisfaction with our products and service; and • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 58 We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Anchor Bank is subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI, and Anchor Bancorp is subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. The FDIC, DFI and the Federal Reserve govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on Anchor Bank. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called "golden parachute" payments and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidate using a company's proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as Anchor Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve approved proposed rules, subsequently approved by the FDIC on June 12, 2012, that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The proposed rules implement the "Basel III" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules include new higher minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would limit the definition of what constitutes "capital" for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios. 59 While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to us or what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, over time require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, in the form of new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the FDIC and DFI, we may be subject to additional adverse regulatory action. See “– We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and are subject to certain business limitations. Further, we may be subject to more severe future regulatory enforcement actions if our financial condition or performance weakens further.” above. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle becomes impaired, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could decrease. At June 30, 2012, we owned $6.5 million in FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the FHLB's Capital Plan. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. In August 2009, under the Federal Housing Finance Agency's prompt corrective action regulations, the FHLB received a capital classification of "undercapitalized" and has subsequently remained so classified, due to, among other things, risk-based capital deficiencies as of March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009, the deterioration in the value of its private-label mortgage-backed securities and the amount of accumulated unrealized losses stemming from that deterioration, and the amount of its retained earnings. On October 25, 2010, the FHLB entered into a consent order with the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The consent order required, among other matters, the FHLB meet and maintain certain minimum financial requirements. The FHLB has communicated that with the exception of a retained earnings requirement, it is in compliance with the minimum financial requirements and has continued taking the specified actions and is working toward meeting the agreed-upon milestones and timelines for completing capital management, asset composition, and other operational and risk management improvements as indicated in the consent order. As a result, we have not recorded an impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. Further deterioration in the FHLB's financial position may, however, result in future impairment in the value of those 60 securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit our shareholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property taken in as real estate owned and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (“fair value”). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. You may not receive dividends on our common stock. It is not expected that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Under the Supervisory Directive, Anchor Bank is not able to pay dividends to Anchor Bancorp without the prior approval of the DFI and the FDIC and we do not expect to pay dividends as long as the Supervisory Directive remains in effect. In addition, we are restricted by the FDIC from making any distributions to stockholders that represent a return of capital without the written non-objection of the FDIC Regional Director. The declaration and payment of future cash dividends will be subject to, among other things, our then current and projected consolidated operating results, financial condition, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory restrictions, future growth plans, general economic conditions, and other factors the board deems relevant. 61 