Risk Factors Relating to Seanergy The dry bulk shipping industry is cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions and volatility of charter rates, vessel values and results of operations. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk carriers has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter hire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of the vessels that we own, to decline and we may not be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably or meet our obligations. The factors affecting the supply and demand for dry bulk carriers are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in dry bulk shipping market conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for seaborne transportation of cargo include: • demand for and production of dry bulk products; • the distance cargo is to be moved by sea; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • environmental and other regulatory developments; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargo is transported due to geographic changes in where commodities are produced and cargoes are used. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of new vessel deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel casualties; • price of steel; • number of vessels that are out of service; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; and • port or canal congestion. We anticipate that the future demand for our vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity 15 Table of Contents of the world’s dry bulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of cargo to be transported by sea. If the global vessel capacity increases in the dry bulk shipping market, but the demand for vessel capacity in this market does not increase or increases at a slower rate, the charter rates could materially decline. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Future growth in dry bulk shipping will depend on a return to economic growth in the world economy that exceeds growth in vessel capacity. A decline in charter rates would adversely affect our revenue stream and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Charter rates for the dry bulk carriers have been at extremely low rates recently mainly due to the current global financial crisis which is also affecting this industry. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn future charter rates, will be dependent upon a return to economic growth in the world’s economy, particularly in China and India, as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world’s fleet. The world’s dry bulk carrier fleet is expected to increase in 2009 as a result of scheduled deliveries of newly constructed vessels but will be leveled off by higher forecasts for scrapping of existing vessels as compared to 2008. A return to economic growth in the world economy that exceeds growth in vessel capacity will be necessary to sustain current charter rates. There can be no assurance that economic growth will not continue to decline or that vessel scrapping will occur at an even lower rate than forecasted. Despite Seanergy’s current strong charter revenue as a result of current charter agreements being secured for 11-13 months which are currently at above market value, there is a risk that due to the current volatility in the dry bulk sector, which is primarily caused by among other things, a decrease in letters of credit being provided, significant drop in demand for goods being shipped, reduction in volumes of goods and cancellation of orders, there is a possibility that charterers could seek to renegotiate the time charter rates either currently or at the time the charters expire in September 2009. A decline in charter rates would adversely affect our revenue stream and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant volatility in the world economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our vessels are engaged in global seaborne transportation of commodities, involving the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished goods around the world. As a result, significant volatility in the world economy and negative changes in global economic conditions, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as future prospects. In particular, in recent years China has been one of the fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Given the current global conditions, the Chinese economy has experienced slowdown and stagnation and there is no assurance that continuous growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience further contraction or stagnation in the future. Moreover, any further slowdown in the U.S. economy, the European Union or certain other Asian countries may continue to adversely affect world economic growth. Negative world economic conditions may result in global production cuts, changes in the supply and demand for the seaborne transportation of dry bulk goods, downward adjusted pricings for goods and freights and cancellation of transactions/orders placed. As a result, our future revenues and net income, may be materially reduced, and our future prospects may be materially affected, by a continuous global economic downturn. An oversupply of dry bulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charter rates and our profitability. The market supply of dry bulk carriers, primarily Capesize and Panamax vessels, has been increasing, and the number of such dry bulk carriers on order is near historic highs. Newly constructed vessels were delivered and are expected to continue in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 through 2009. As of December 2008, newly constructed vessels orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 72% of the current global dry bulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next 36 months. An oversupply of dry bulk carrier capacity may result in a reduction of our charter rates. If such a reduction occurs, when our vessels’ current charters expire or terminate, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. In turn, this may result in the need to take impairment charges on one or more of our vessels. 16 Table of Contents Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Although limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces, many of the reforms are experimental and may be subject to change or abolition. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels may involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, but particularly in China or India, may have an adverse effect on our future business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience contraction in the future. In particular, in recent months, the demand for dry bulk goods from emerging markets, such as China and India, has significantly declined as growth projections for these nations’ economies have been adjusted downwards. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely effect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. We may become dependent on spot charters in the volatile shipping markets which may have an adverse impact on stable cash flows and revenues. We may employ one or more of our vessels on spot charters, including when time charters on vessels expire. The spot charter market is highly competitive and rates within this market are subject to volatile fluctuations, while longer-term period time charters provide income at predetermined rates over more extended periods of time. If we decide to spot charter our vessels, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in keeping all our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable our vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in charter rates could affect the value of our fleet and could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows with the result that our ability to pay debt service to our lenders and dividends to our shareholders could be impaired. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our shareholders from period to period. The dry bulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to 17 Table of Contents disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, revenues of dry bulk carrier operators in general have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, been stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality may materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially and adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization’s International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires vessel owners, vessel managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a vessel owner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Each of our vessels is ISM code-certified but we cannot assure that such certificate will be maintained indefinitely. We maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance in the amount of $1 billion per incident. If the damages from a catastrophic incident exceeded our insurance coverage, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The operation of dry bulk carriers has particular operational risks which could affect our earnings and cash flow. The operation of certain vessel types, such as dry bulk carriers, has certain particular risks. With a dry bulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, dry bulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, dry bulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach while at sea. Hull breaches in dry bulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a dry bulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could result in loss of life, vessel and/or cargo and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If any of our vessels fails to maintain its class certification and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry docking or special survey, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the International Convention for the 18 Table of Contents Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS. Our vessels are classed with one or more classification societies that are members of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessels. Currently, the African Zebra entered its scheduled dry dock on February 24, 2009, which is expected to be completed by the end of April 2009, and the Hamburg Max is scheduled to be dry docked in April 2009. The costs of such dry dockings are expected to aggregate between $2.1 million and $2.7 million. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our seafaring employees are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings. Our vessel-owning subsidiaries employ a large number of seafarers. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruptions could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt its cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one of our vessels for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because we operate our vessels worldwide, terrorism and other events outside our control may negatively affect our operations and financial condition. Because we operate our vessels worldwide, terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005, and the continuing 19 Table of Contents response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks and armed conflicts may also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. 