Item 1A. Risk Factors.An investment in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to Anchor Bancorp, our industry, and our market area. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and are subject to certain business limitations. Further, we may be subject to more severe future regulatory enforcement actions if our financial condition or performance weakens.Primarily because of its increased level of nonperforming assets, on August 12, 2009, Anchor Bank became subject to the Order, issued with its consent, by the FDIC and DFI because they had reason to believe that Anchor Bank had engaged in unsafe and unsound banking practices and violations of law and/or regulations. The Order was terminated on September 5, 2012 as a result of the steps Anchor Bank took in complying with the Order and reducing its level of classified assets, augmenting management and improving the overall condition of Anchor Bank. In place of the Order, Anchor Bank entered into a Supervisory Directive with the DFI. The Supervisory Directive contains provisions concerning (i) the management and directors of Anchor Bank; (ii) restrictions on paying dividends; (iii) reductions of classified assets; (iv) maintaining Tier 1 capital in an amount equal to or exceeding 10% of Anchor Bank's total assets; (v) policies concerning the allowance for loan and lease losses ("ALLL"); and (vi) requirements to furnish a revised three-year business plan to improve Anchor Bank's profitability and progress reports to the FDIC and DFI. The Supervisory Directive will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the FDIC and DFI.Management has been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the Supervisory Directive. Compliance with the Supervisory Directive, however, is subject to a determination by the DFI. The DFI may determine, in its sole discretion, that we have not addressed the issues raised by the Supervisory Directive satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions taken by it. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations.The current weak economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio.Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Washington and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the five counties in which we operate, which we consider to be our primary market areas, as well as the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area where we have had lending activities prior to 2007, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, in the current economic downturn, Washington and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates.Continued weakness or a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;43Table of Contents•the slowing of sales of foreclosed assets;•demand for our products and services may decline, possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;•collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and•the amount of our low-cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have adverse effect on our results of operations. The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling and federal budget deficit and concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and uncertainty for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.At June 30, 2013, $73.9 million, or 26.1% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one-to-four single-family real property. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans reflected in our recent charge-off experience on these loans. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified.Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. Further, a significant amount of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our residential loans.Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss.In addition to residential mortgage loans, we originate construction and land loans, commercial and multi-family mortgage loans, commercial business loans, and consumer loans primarily within our market areas. At June 30, 2013, we had $209.6 million outstanding in non-residential loans. For the year ended June 30, 2013, loans delinquent 30 days or more, including nonperforming 44Table of Contentsloans, were $10.2 million, and delinquent loans represented 3.6% of total loans. Many of these loans are perceived to have greater credit risk than residential real estate loans for a number of reasons, including those described below:Construction and Land Loans. Since 2008, and as was required by the Order, we significantly decreased our origination of construction and land acquisition and development loans. At June 30, 2013, we had $10.9 million or 3.9% of total loans in construction and land loans. Included in this amount are $5.3 million of land loans to individuals at June 30, 2013. There were no land acquisition and development loans outstanding at June 30, 2013.Construction and land lending includes the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property's value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are for homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction as well as lot loans made to individuals for the future construction of a residence also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly affected by supply and demand conditions. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to independently repay principal and interest. At June 30, 2013, $589,000 of our construction loans were to a builder for speculative residential construction. Speculative construction loans are loans made to builders who have not identified a buyer for the completed property at the time of origination. At June 30, 2013, $734,000 or 11.9% of our total construction and land loans were nonperforming.Commercial and Multi-family Mortgage Loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated from the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. This risk is exacerbated in this current environment. At June 30, 2013, we had $145.3 million or 51.2% of total loans in commercial and multi-family mortgage loans, none of which were nonperforming.Commercial Business Loans. At June 30, 2013, we had $18.2 million or 6.4% of total loans in commercial business loans, however, we are currently planning on expanding our commercial business lending, subject to market conditions. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrower's cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible, inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, and other collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and creditworthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. At June 30, 2013, nonperforming commercial business loans totaled $219,000.Consumer Loans. We make secured and unsecured consumer loans. Our secured consumer loans are collateralized with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. At June 30, 2013, we had $35.1 million or 12.4% of total loans in consumer loans of which $448,000 were nonperforming. Of this amount, $25.8 million were in home equity loans, some of which are loans in amounts for up to 100% of collateral value. For more information about the credit risk, we face with respect to these types of loans, see “Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.”45Table of ContentsOur loan portfolio possesses increased risk as the result of subprime loans.As of June 30, 2013, we held in our loan portfolio $6.5 million in one-to-four family mortgage loans ($3.4 million of which were fixed rate), $228,000 of automobile loans (all of which were fixed rate), $2.9 million of home equity loans (of which $2.1 million were fixed rate) and $165,000 of other types of consumer loans (all of which were fixed rate), which are considered “subprime” by federal banking regulators. The aggregate amount of loans considered subprime at June 30, 2013 was $9.8 million or 3.5% of our total loan portfolio. In exchange for the additional lender risk associated with these loans, these borrowers generally are required to pay a higher interest rate, and depending on the severity of the credit history, a lower loan-to-value ratio may be required than for a conforming loan borrower. At the time of loan origination, our subprime borrowers had an average Fair Isaac and Company, Incorporated, or FICO, credit score of 624 and a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 69%, which may be significantly understated if current market values are used. A FICO score is a principal measure of credit quality and is one of the significant criteria we rely upon in our underwriting. Generally, a FICO score higher than 660 indicates the borrower has an acceptable credit reputation. At June 30, 2013, $1.4 million of our subprime loans were categorized as nonperforming assets and $348,000 of these loans were categorized as nonaccrual. Subprime loans are generally considered to have an increased risk of delinquency and foreclosure than do conforming loans, especially when adjustable rate loans adjust to a higher interest rate. We had not experienced such increased delinquencies or foreclosures at June 30, 2013, however, our subprime loan portfolio will be adversely affected in the event of a further downturn in regional or national economic conditions. In addition, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense.Our concentration in non-owner occupied residential real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At June 30, 2013, $21.3 million, or 29.7% of our residential mortgage loan portfolio and 7.6% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depends primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At June 30, 2013, we had 16 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, with aggregate outstanding balances of $13.3 million, of which four loan relationships had an aggregate outstanding balance over $500,000. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. At June 30, 2013, all of our non-owner occupied residential mortgage loans complied with their loan repayment terms, except for 13 loans which totaled $4.8 million at that date.The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land acquisition and development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land acquisition and development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. Our total of incoming producing or non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans were $124.3 million or 220.8% of total capital at June 30, 2013 compared to $126.9 million or 225.9% of total capital at June 30, 2012. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us.46Table of ContentsOur allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms, or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;•the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;•the duration of the loan;•the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and•changes in economic and industry conditions.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which we believe is an appropriate reserve to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance is funded by provisions for loan losses charged to expense. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors, and management's expectations of future events;•our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral; and•an unallocated reserve to provide for other credit losses inherent in our portfolio that may not have been contemplated in the other loss factors.The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our provision for loan losses and net loan charge-offs have increased significantly in recent years and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations.For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $750,000 compared to $2.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2012. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $2.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2013 compared to $2.9 million for the comparable period in 2012. Despite the decrease from the prior year, we are still experiencing elevated levels of loan delinquencies and credit losses by historical standards.If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses until general economic conditions improve further. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses to increase our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.8% of total loans held for investment and 83.6% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2013. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital.In addition, Western Washington and the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area, where substantially all of the real and personal property securing our loans is located, is an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake could result in our significantly increasing our allowance for loan losses resulting in material losses to us, although we have not experienced any losses in the past ten years as a result of earthquake damage to collateral securing loans. See Item 1., “Business – Natural Disasters.If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.At June 30, 2013, our nonperforming assets which consist of nonaccruing loans and real estate owned, were $12.4 million, or 2.7% of total assets. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways:47Table of Contents•we record interest income only on a cash basis for nonaccrual loans and any nonperforming securities and we do not record interest income for real estate owned;•we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses;•noninterest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment on nonperforming securities;•there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our real estate owned; and•the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our nonperforming assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property taken in as real estate owned and at certain other times during the asset's holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (“fair value”). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, which could negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and (5) the average duration of our mortgage backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of short-term certificates of deposit and other deposits yielding no or a relatively low rate of interest. At June 30, 2013, we had $51.7 million in certificates of deposit that mature within one year and $39.7 million in non-interest bearing demand deposits. We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, a substantial amount of our mortgage loans and home equity loans have adjustable interest rates. As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment. Further, a prolonged period of exceptionally low market interest rates, such as we are currently experiencing, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of substantially reduced asset yields. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest 48Table of Contentsrates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the last four years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has contributed to increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. How long the Federal Reserve will maintain low interest rates in the future is unknown. So long as a low interest rate environment is maintained, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see "Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.”Decreases in noninterest income could adversely affect our ability to return to profitability and, if we cannot generate and increase our income, our stock price may be adversely affected.Our net interest income has decreased steadily in recent years. We also face significant challenges that will hinder our ability to generate competitive returns. Our most significant challenge has been our low interest rate spread and margin during recent periods. As a result, we have become even more reliant on our noninterest income, including from time to time significant gains on sales of investments in order to increase noninterest income. These gains on sales of investments are subject to market and other risks and cannot be relied upon. During the years ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, net interest income before provision for loan losses was less than noninterest expense by $4.4 million and $5.7 million, respectively. While we have identified various strategic initiatives that we will pursue in our efforts to overcome these challenges and improve earnings, our strategic initiatives may not succeed in generating and increasing income. If we are unable to generate or increase income, our stock price may be adversely affected.In addition, we originate and sell residential mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for our residential loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold can decrease our revenues and net income. Further, recent regulatory changes to the rules for overdraft fees for debit transactions and interchange fees have reduced our fee income, resulting in a reduction of our noninterest income.Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, and growth prospects.Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”) and other borrowings to fund our operations. At June 30, 2013, we had $64.9 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $14.3 million of available borrowing capacity. Additionally we have $1.1 million available with the Federal Reserve. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. 49Table of ContentsWe operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Anchor Bank is subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI, and Anchor Bancorp is subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. The FDIC, DFI and the Federal Reserve govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed.Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on Anchor Bank. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor.The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called "golden parachute" payments and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidate using a company's proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as Anchor Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators, but are subject to the rules of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In June 2012, the Federal Reserve approved final rules and the FDIC subsequently interim final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The final rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule ("Final Rule") to establish a new comprehensive regulatory capital framework for all US banking organizations. On July 9, 2013, the Final Rule was approved as an interim final rule by the FDIC. These new requirements establish the following minimum capital ratios: (1) a common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; and 94) a leverage ratio of 4.0%. In addition, there is a new requirement to maintain a capital conservation buffer, comprised of CET1 capital, in an amount greater than 2.5% of risk-weighted assets over the minimum capital required by each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid limitations on the organization's ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or pay discretionary bonuses. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in, beginning January 1, 2016, requiring during 2016 a buffer amount greater than 0.625% in order to avoid these limitations, and increasing the amount each year until beginning January 1, 2019, the buffer amount must be greater than 2.5% in order to avoid the limitation. The new regulations also change what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting these various capital requirements, as well as the risk-weighted of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios. 50Table of ContentsUnder the new regulations, in order to be considered well-capitalized for prompt corrective action purposes, the Bank will be required to maintain the following ratios: (1) a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of a least 10.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of at least 5.0%. Anchor Bank has conducted a pro forma analysis of the application of these new capital requirements as of June 30, 2013. We have determined that Anchor Bank meets all these new requirements, including the full 2.5% capital conservation buffer, and remains well-capitalized, if these new requirements had been effect on that date. Anchor Bancorp has also conducted a pro forma analysis of the application of these new capital requirements as of June 30, 2013. We have determined that Anchor Bancorp meets all these new requirements, including the full 2.5% capital conservation buffer, and remains well-capitalized, if these new requirements had been effect on that date. The application of these more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, over time require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, in the form of new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth.Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the FDIC and DFI, we may be subject to additional adverse regulatory action. See “– We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and are subject to certain business limitations. Further, we may be subject to more severe future regulatory enforcement actions if our financial condition or performance weakens further.” above.If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle becomes impaired, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could decrease.At June 30, 2013, we owned $6.3 million in FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the FHLB's Capital Plan. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. In September 2012, the FHLB announced that the FHFA now considers the FHLB to be adequately capitalized. The FHLB also announced that it had been granted authority to repurchase up to $25 million of excess capital stock per quarter, provided they receive a non-objection from the FHFA. As of June 30, 2013, the FHLB had repurchased $ 231,700 of its stock, at par, from Anchor Bank. The FHLB announced July 22, 2013 that, based on second quarter 2013 financial results, their Board of Directors had declared a $0.025 per share cash dividend. It is the first dividend in a number of years and represents a significant milestone in FHLB's return to normal operations. As a result, we have not recorded an impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. Deterioration in the FHLB's financial position may, however, result in future impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment.New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit our shareholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Additionally, 51Table of Contentsactions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.You may not receive dividends on our common stock.It is not expected that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Under the Supervisory Directive, Anchor Bank is not able to pay dividends to Anchor Bancorp without the prior approval of the DFI and the FDIC and we do not expect to pay dividends as long as the Supervisory Directive remains in effect. In addition, we are restricted by the FDIC from making any distributions to stockholders that represent a return of capital without the written non-objection of the FDIC Regional Director. The declaration and payment of future cash dividends will be subject to, among other things, our then current and projected consolidated operating results, financial condition, tax considerations, statutory and regulatory restrictions, future growth plans, general economic conditions, and other factors the board deems relevant.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.