RISK FACTORS Factors Relating to Argentina Political and economic instability in Argentina has affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are an Argentine corporation (sociedad anónima). As of December 31, 2009, approximately 79% of our total assets, 84% of our net sales, 80% of our combined crude oil and gas production and 80% of our proved oil and gas reserves were located in Argentina. Fluctuations in the Argentine economy and actions adopted by the Argentine government have had and may continue to have a significant impact on Argentine companies, including us. Specifically, we have been affected and may continue to be affected by inflation, interest rates, the value of the peso against foreign currencies, price controls, regulatory policies, business and tax regulations and in general by the political, social and economic scenario in Argentina and in other countries that may affect Argentina. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. See “Business Overview—Our Principal Market”. The crisis had significant and adverse consequences on our company, including (i) losses derived from the effects of the peso devaluation on our affiliates and our affiliates’ net borrowing position, which primarily was denominated in U.S. dollars, (ii) the impairment of the book value of certain gas areas and tax assets due to material changes in the prospects of our operations, (iii) a decrease in U.S. dollar cash flows due to the imposition of export taxes, (iv) limits on the availability in the financial market to renew our short-term lines of credit and the current portion of our medium and long-term financings at maturity and (v) restrictions on our ability to pass through the effects of inflation to the prices of products sold by us in the domestic market. In 2002, we reported a significant net loss and our liquidity was adversely affected. Within this context and in order to secure compliance with our financial commitments, we reduced our investment plan and reached an agreement with our financial creditors and holders of notes to extend the maturity profile of a substantial portion of our debt, at face value. As a result, capital expenditures in 2002, net of divestments, totaled only P$139 million, a relatively low amount compared to our historical average investment. Although the Argentine economy has largely recovered from the crisis of 2001 and 2002, the global economic crisis that began in 2008 has led to a sudden deceleration of the economy in 2009, accompanied by political and social unrest, inflationary and peso depreciation pressures and lack of consumer and investor confidence. Uncertainty remains as to whether and how quickly Argentina may overcome the economic slowdown and regain economic growth, which depends on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors and a stable and relatively low rate of inflation. We cannot provide you with any assurance that future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, over which we have no control, will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay our debts at maturity or dividends. The Argentine economy has been adversely affected by economic developments in other markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced by economic and market conditions in other markets worldwide. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perceptions of events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and investments in securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred during 2008, and continued to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners in 2009. Furthermore, the Argentine economy has been affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the Argentine financial system and securities markets will not continue to be adversely affected by events in developed countries’ economies or events in other emerging markets. This could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents A lack of financing for Argentine companies, whether due to government regulation or market forces, may negatively impact the execution of our strategic business plan. The prospects for Argentine companies of accessing financial markets are limited in terms of the amount of financing available, and the conditions and cost of such financing. The default on the Argentine sovereign debt at the end of 2001, the global economic crisis that started in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the resulting international stock market crash and the insolvency of major financial institutions toward the end of 2008, have all significantly limited the ability of Argentine companies to access international financial markets as they have in the past. Our ability to execute and carry out our strategic business plan depends upon our ability to obtain financing at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. In recent years, we have regularly obtained financing from the private pension fund system in Argentina, which has been a significant purchaser of our debt and shares. However, in November 2008 the Argentine National Congress passed a law eliminating the private pension system, mandating that funds administered by the private Retirement and Pension Funds Administrators (the “AFJP”), be transferred to a new administrator, the National Social Security Administrative Office (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, or “ANSES”). Because the private pension funds until that moment had been major institutional investors in the Argentine capital markets, the transfer of their assets to a state-run administrator has led to a decline in liquidity in the local capital markets, and may further limit the sources of financing for Argentine companies, including us. If we are unable to gain access to international or local financial markets to refinance our indebtedness at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, we may have to reduce our projected capital expenditures, which, in turn, may negatively affect the implementation of our business plan. Fluctuations in the value of the peso may adversely affect the Argentine economy, our financial condition and the results of operations. The value of the peso has fluctuated significantly in the past and may do so in the future. Since the end of the of P$1 to U.S.$1 parity in January 2002, the peso has fluctuated significantly in value. As a result, the Central Bank has taken several measures to stabilize the exchange rate. The marked devaluation of the peso in 2002 had a negative impact on the ability of the Argentine government and companies to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, led to very high inflation initially and had a negative impact on businesses whose success depends on domestic market demand, including public utilities. The significant peso devaluation during 2002 adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our financial debt and a significant portion of our affiliates’ debt were denominated in U.S. dollars. Before the enactment of the Public Emergency Law in January 2002, our cash flow, generally denominated in U.S. dollars or dollar-adjusted, provided a natural hedge against exchange rate risks. The Argentine regulatory framework after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law (which included the pesification of utility rates, regulatory issues related to the renegotiation of pesified utility rates, new taxes on hydrocarbon exports, and the implementation of regulations to prevent an increase in prices to final users in the domestic market and restrictions on exports), however, limited our ability to hedge the impact of the peso devaluation. If the peso devaluates significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences to our business. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy since it may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account balance and the balance of payments. We are unable to predict the future value of the peso against the U.S. dollar and how any fluctuations may affect the demand of our products and services. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not make regulatory changes that prevent or limit us from offsetting the risk derived from our exposure to the U.S. dollar and, if so, what impact these changes will have on our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation may escalate and undermine economic growth in Argentina and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to stimulate economic growth. For example, during 2002, the Argentine consumers price index increased by 41%, and the wholesale price index increased by 118.2%. This inflation reflected both the effect of the peso devaluation on production costs and a significant change in relative prices, which was partially offset by the elimination of rate adjustments and a strong drop in demand as a result of the recession. According to inflation data published by the National Statistics Institute, in 2003, inflation slowed, with a 3.7% increase in the consumer price index and a 2.0% increase in the wholesale price index. 13 Table of Contents In addition, according to inflation data published by the National Statistics Institute, from 2004 to 2009, the Argentine consumer price index increased 6.1%, 12.3%, 9.8%, 8.5%, 7.2% and 7.7%, respectively; and the wholesale price index increased 7.9%, 10.8%, 7.1%, 14.4%, 8.8% and 10.3%, respectively. Uncertainty surrounding future inflation may result in slowed economic activity and reduced growth. A return to a high inflation environment would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the peso devaluation, with negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment. Sustained inflation in Argentina, without a corresponding increase in the price paid by consumers for our products in the local market would have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot estimate how our activities and results of operations will be affected by inflation in the future. Exchange controls in Argentina may impair our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations and pay dividends. After December 2001, Argentine authorities implemented a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures that included restrictions on the withdrawal of funds deposited with banks, the obligation to deposit foreign currency from exports with the Argentine Central Bank, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad as well as restrictions relating to the servicing of foreign debt. The Central Bank has since issued a number of regulations aimed at gradually normalizing the domestic exchange market and, as a result, most restrictions in connection with the repayment of foreign creditors and the payment of dividends to foreign shareholders have been lifted. Nevertheless, certain exchange controls, including those imposed on foreign loans to the Argentine private sector, remain in place, with related requirements concerning the term of such loans, their denomination and transferability. See “Item 3. Exchange Rates—Exchange controls,” and “Item 5. Description of Indebtedness.” As a result of political and economic instability in Argentina, the Argentine Government may impose exchange controls and other related measures. If the Argentine Government imposes exchange controls and other restrictions on the transfer of funds, we may be unable to make principal or interest payments on our debt when it becomes due or to pay dividends. Limits on exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations. In recent periods, the Argentine government has introduced a series of measures limiting exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products, which have prevented us from profiting from higher prices of these commodities in the international markets, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. In April 2004, in order to facilitate the recovery of natural gas prices, the Secretary of Energy entered into an agreement with natural gas producers requiring them to sell a specified amount of gas in the local regulated market. During 2006, the Secretary of Energy required producers to redirect gas earmarked for export to supply local thermal power plants and gas distribution companies. In January 2007, the Secretary of Energy confirmed that the ability to export hydrocarbons would be subject to the satisfaction of domestic demand and that exports would have to be authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Secretary of Energy. These measures prevent us from benefiting from higher margins in the international markets. In 2007, upon the expiration of the aforementioned agreement, the Argentine government and producers signed a new agreement effective until 2011 aimed at securing the domestic supply of gas. Under these agreements, temporary limits on certain natural gas exports have been imposed to avoid a crisis in the local supply of natural gas, depriving us of higher margins in the international markets. Pursuant to Resolution No. 1679/04, since December 2004, producers must obtain the approval of the Argentine government prior to exporting crude oil or diesel oil. To obtain this approval, exporters must demonstrate that they have either satisfied local demand requirements or have granted the domestic market the opportunity to acquire oil or diesel oil under terms similar to current domestic market prices and, in the case of diesel oil, they must also demonstrate, if applicable, that commercial terms offered to the domestic market are at least equal to those offered to their own gas station network. Furthermore, in December 2006, pursuant to Resolution No. 1338/06, the Secretary of Energy extended these regulations to the export of gasoline, fuel oil and fuel oil mixtures, diesel oil, aero kerosene, jet fuel, lubricants, asphalts, coke and by-products for use in the petrochemical industry. In January 2008 the Argentine government temporarily prohibited the exports of gasoline and diesel oil until the domestic market was fully supplied at the prices in force on October 31, 2007. The extension or increase of these restrictions may significantly and adversely affect the profitability of our operations, preventing us from capturing the upside of export prices, and negatively impacting the total volume of refined products sold in the domestic market, due to our need to manage crude oil volumes processed in accordance with our storage capacity. 14 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not increase export restrictions on hydrocarbons and related oil products. If it were to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Export taxes on our products have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, the profitability of our operations. On March 1, 2002, the Argentine government imposed a withholding tax on exports of hydrocarbons, initially lasting five years. This tax framework has prevented us from benefiting from significant increases in international prices for oil, oil related products and natural gas, hindered us from offsetting sustained increases in costs endemic to the energy industry, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. Effective November 2007, the Ministry of Economy and Production adopted a more onerous method for calculating withholding taxes on exports of crude oil and certain oil by-products. See “Item 5. Operating and financial review and prospects—Factors affecting our consolidated results of operations—Regulations of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Withholding Taxes on Exports”. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will reduce current export tax rates or will not increase them further. We cannot predict the impact that any changes may have on our results of operations and financial condition. Price controls have affected, and may continue to affect, our results of operations and capital expenditures. The Argentine government has imposed a series of regulations on the energy sector to limit the prices charged to end users in an effort to reduce the inflationary impact of high international commodity prices and to guarantee domestic supply. These regulations have had a material adverse impact on our results of operations. See “Item 4. Regulation of our Business”. a) Natural gas and electricity Pursuant to the Public Emergency Law, we have been precluded from increasing the price of gas and electricity sold in the domestic market. This limitation, within the context of the peso devaluation and subsequent inflation, resulted in a substantial change in the economic and financial balance of our energy and gas-related businesses, affecting our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Analysis of Consolidated Results of Operations—Factors Affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations—Regulation of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Electricity Generation”. See “Item 4. Regulation of our Business—Modifications to the Regulatory Framework”. Our results and capital expenditure plans may be adversely affected if (i) the agreed schedule of increases in natural gas prices or the commitments with respect to electricity price increases fail to be fully implemented by the Argentine government or (ii) the government applies its regulatory emergency authority or adopts other regulations to control prices or supply. b) Downstream margins The downstream business in Argentina has been and may continue to be subject to extensive regulatory changes that affect prices and profitability, and these changes have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. Downstream margins in Argentina have significantly declined since the enactment of the Public Emergency Law. Since 2002, the Argentine government has actively intervened in the domestic fuel market to ensure full supply and to limit increases in the price of gasoline and diesel oil at the retail level that would have resulted from: (i) higher costs due to increases in crude oil international prices (ii) the peso devaluation and (iii) domestic inflation. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, some flexibility was reintroduced to the domestic market that allowed for gradual increases in fuel prices, which facilitated a partial recovery in marketing margins. The Argentine fuel market has steadily grown over the last several years. To secure domestic supply, in the face of growing demand and the inability of Argentine refineries to significantly increase production levels, in 2006 the Secretary of Domestic Trade promulgated Resolution No. 25/2006, which required refining companies to supply all diesel oil market demand with a baseline equal to the same month of the prior year’s demand, plus an estimated market variation. 15 Table of Contents In order to comply with these restrictions, we were required to import 202 thousand cubic meters of diesel oil in 2008 and 208 thousand cubic meters in 2007. Considering the differential between import and retail diesel oil prices, we recognized losses of P$151 million and P$106 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, under Resolution No. 121/2008 issued by the Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services, we were able to import diesel oil at domestic market prices under the Total Energy Program (“PET”), due to a provision whereby the Argentine Government subsidized the cost of imports. This subsidization significantly mitigated the losses we would have otherwise had to bear under the supply requirements of Resolution No. 25/2006. In the future, subject to the production capacity of our plants and the real market growth levels, we may be required to continue importing diesel oil, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not make further regulatory changes that will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 5. Factors Affecting Our Consolidated Results of Operations—Regulation of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Downstream Margins”. The Argentine government and our affiliated utility companies are in the process of renegotiating utility contracts, and the recoverability of our investments in these affiliates depends on the successful completion of these negotiations. The macroeconomic situation of the country after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law impacted the economic and financial condition of utility companies in Argentina. The combined effect of (i) the peso devaluation, (ii) the pesification of rates on a one-to-one basis and (iii) financial debts primarily denominated in foreign currency, adversely affected the utility companies’ financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy financial obligations and pay dividends. Although some of these utility companies have been successful in restructuring their indebtedness, their return to financial stability and profitability on a long-term basis depends on a successful negotiation of tariff increases with the Argentine government. The Utilities Contract Renegotiation and Analysis Committee (Unidad de Renegociación y Análisis de Contratos de Servicios Públicos) (“UNIREN”), created by the Argentine government to provide assistance in the negotiation process, execute comprehensive or partial agreements with utility companies and submit regulatory projects related to provisional rate adjustments, is currently in the process of renegotiating contracts with our affiliates Edesur S.A. (“Edesur”) and Transportadora de Gas del Sur S.A. (“TGS”). See “Item 4. Business Overview—Gas and Energy—Gas Transportation—TGS—Regulated Energy Segment” and “Business Overview—Gas and Energy— Electricity—Electricity Distribution- Edesur” and “Regulation of Our Business—Argentine Regulatory Framework—Natural Gas and Electricity”. We cannot assure you that these discussions will ultimately result in a level of tariff increases sufficient for our affiliated utility companies to return to financial stability and profitability in the near future or on a long-term basis. Factors Relating to Our Business Declines in the prices of crude oil and related oil products may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of crude oil and related oil products. Factors affecting international prices for crude oil and related oil products include: political developments in crude oil producing regions; the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other crude oil producing nations to set and maintain crude oil production levels and prices; global supply and demand for crude oil; competition from other energy sources; government regulations; weather conditions and global conflicts or acts of terrorism. Changes in crude oil prices generally result in changes in prices for related products. International oil prices have fluctuated widely over the last ten years. As of December 31, 2009, the WTI reached US$80 per barrel, with an average price of US$62 per barrel in 2009 compared to US$99.6 and US$72.3 in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Substantial or extended declines in international prices of crude oil and related oil products may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the value of our proved reserves. In addition, significant decreases in the prices of crude oil and related oil products may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserve estimates in the future. 16 Table of Contents Our crude oil and natural gas reserves estimates involve some degree of uncertainty and may prove to be incorrect over time. The proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this annual report account for our estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions (i.e. with prices and costs as of the estimate date). Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are those that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. See “Item 4. Business Overview—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Reserves”. Proved reserve estimates could be materially different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, and downward revisions of our estimates could impact our future results of operations and business plan, including our level of capital expenditures. We may not be able to replace our oil and gas reserves and this may have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have experienced a decline in reserves and production. The possibility of replacing our crude oil and gas reserves in the future is dependent on our ability to access new reserves, both through successful exploration and reserve acquisitions. We consider exploration, which carries inherent risks and uncertainties, our main vehicle for future growth and reserves replacement. Without successful exploration activities or reserve acquisitions, our proved reserves will decline as our oil and gas production will be forced to rely on our current portfolio of assets. Further decline in reserves and production may limit the integration of our upstream and downstream operations, since maximizing the crude oil processing capacity of our refineries would require us to obtain a greater supply of our crude oil from third parties, including imports. We cannot guarantee that our exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in significant additional reserves. If we are not able to successfully find, develop or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and therefore our production may continue to decline and, consequently, this may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Our operations could be adversely affected by events beyond our control. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed, interrupted or canceled as a result of weather conditions, mechanical difficulties, shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment, coercive actions and compliance with governmental requirements, or other events that could adversely impact our costs of production, results of operation and financial condition. For example, from March 9, 2007 to April 10, 2007, operations in Block 18, in Ecuador, were curtailed as a result of coercive actions taken by local communities. During this period, cumulative oil production decreased by approximately 305,000 barrels of oil equivalent in our participation. Future events beyond our control may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our activities may be adversely affected by events in countries in which we do business. Our operations are concentrated in Latin America, a region that has experienced significant economic, social, political and regulatory volatility. In recent periods, many governments in Latin America have taken steps to assert greater control or increase their share of revenues from the energy sector, spurred by soaring oil and gas prices and nationalist politics. See “Item 4. Regulation of our Businesses—Regulatory Framework outside of Argentina—Petroleum and Gas”. These risks are evidenced by changes in business conditions that we have experienced in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador. See “Item 5. Factors affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations.” See “Item 4. Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Production—Production Outside of Argentina” We could be subject to organized labor action. Many of our operations are highly labor-intensive and require a significant number of workers. The sectors in which we operate are largely unionized. We have experienced organized work disruptions and stoppages in the past, frequently due to strikes by employees of contractors we employ. We cannot assure you that we will not experience such disruptions or work stoppages in the future, and any such action could adversely affect our business and revenues. 17 Table of Contents During 2007 and 2008 unionized employees went on strike over salary increases, adversely affecting our operations. In 2008, in the Austral basin in Argentina, the pace of production slowed as a result of the labor strike held by our contractor’s employees throughout May 2008, with an adverse impact on production levels in subsequent months. In 2009, to a lesser extent, gas production in the Austral basin was affected by labor strikes by contractors’ personnel. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management, and Employees — Employees” We do not maintain insurance coverage for business interruptions, including business interruptions caused by labor actions. Strikes, picketing or other types of conflict with the unionized personnel may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations could cause environmental damage, and any changes in environmental laws may increase our operational costs. Some of our operations are subject to environmental risks that may arise unexpectedly and result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. We have not incurred in any material pollution liabilities as a result of operations to date. We cannot assure you that we will not incur in additional costs related to the environment in the future, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure that the insurance coverage that we maintain is adequate to cover the losses that may potentially arise from these environmental risks. Furthermore, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation both in Argentina and in the other countries in which we operate. Local, provincial and national authorities in Argentina and other countries where we operate are moving towards more stringent enforcement of environmental laws, which may require us to incur in higher compliance costs. We cannot predict what effects this may have on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents 