RISK FACTORS Factors Relating to Argentina Economic and political instability in Argentina has affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to economic and political conditions in Argentina, considering that as of December 31, 2012, approximately 80% of our total assets, 99% of our net sales, 89% of our combined crude oil and gas production and 85% of our proved oil and gas reserves were located in Argentina. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. As a consequence, our business and operations have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by economic and political developments and other material events affecting the Argentine economy, such as: inflation; price controls; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; currency devaluation; governmental policies regarding spending and investment, and other regulatory initiatives increasing government involvement with economic activity; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest; and local insecurity concerns. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Among other consequences, the crisis resulted in Argentina defaulting on its foreign debt obligations, introducing emergency measures and numerous changes in economic policies that affected utilities and many other sectors of the economy, and suffering a significant real devaluation of the peso, which in turn caused numerous Argentine private sector debtors with foreign currency exposure to default on their outstanding debt. Since that crisis, Argentina has substantially increased its real Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”). During 2008 and 2009, however, the Argentine economy suffered a slowdown attributable to local and external factors, including an extended drought affecting agricultural activities, and the effects of the global economic crisis. Real GDP growth recovered in 2010 and 2011, with the Argentine GDP increasing 7.3% in 2011, according to data published by the INDEC, which is statutorily the only institution in Argentina with the power to produce official nationwide statistics. In 2012, however, GDP growth slowed to 1.9%, according to data published by the INDEC. Argentina has confronted inflationary pressures since 2007, evidenced by significantly higher fuel, energy and food prices, among other indicators. According to inflation data published by the INDEC, from 2008 to 2012, the Argentine consumer price index increased 7.2%, 7.7%, 10.9%, 9.5% and 10.8%, respectively; and the wholesale price index increased 8.8%, 10.3%, 14.5%, 12.7% and 13.1%, respectively. However, the INDEC has since 2007 experienced a process of institutional and methodological reforms that have given rise to controversy with respect to the reliability of the information that it produces. Reports published by the IMF state that their staff uses alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, which have shown inflation rates considerably higher than those published by the INDEC since 2007. The IMF has also issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with its breach of its related obligations to the IMF under the Articles of Agreement for failing to make sufficient progress in adopting remedial measures to address the quality of official data, including inflation and GDP data. While controversy with the IMF remains as to the reliability of the official data, since 2007 inflation in Argentina has contributed to a material increase in our costs of operation, in particular labor costs, and negatively impacted our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that inflation rates will not escalate in the future, or of what effects the measures adopted or that may be adopted in the future by the Argentine government to control inflation may have. See “—Government intervention in the Argentine economy could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.” Fluctuations in the value of the peso may also adversely affect the Argentine economy, our financial condition and results of operations. Since January 2002, the peso has fluctuated significantly in value. If the peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation would also have adverse consequences for our business. A substantial increase in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy since it may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account balance and the balance of payments. We are unable to predict the future value of the peso against the U.S. dollar and how any fluctuations may affect the demand for our products and services or the costs that we incur in conducting our operations. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rates.” In addition, the Argentine government has also adopted numerous measures to control directly or indirectly foreign trade and foreign exchange markets. Since the enhancement of exchange controls began in late 2011, and upon the introduction of measures that have limited access to foreign currency by private companies and individuals, in addition to requiring an authorization of tax authorities to access the foreign currency exchange market, the implied exchange rate, as reflected in the quotations for Argentine securities that trade in foreign markets compared to the corresponding quotations in the local market, has increased significantly. These regulations may prevent or limit us from offsetting the risk derived from our exposure to the U.S. dollar and, if so, we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide any assurance that inflation, fluctuations in the value of the peso and/or other future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, over which we have no control, will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay our debts at maturity or dividends. 8 Table of Contents Government intervention in the Argentine economy could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the political and economic factors described above, our business and operations have been, and could in the future be, affected by actions taken by the Argentine government through the implementation of new or changed laws and regulations, such as: nationalizations, expropriations or forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; exchange and/or transfer restrictions; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases, changes in the interpretation or application of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; cancellation of contract rights; and delays or denials of governmental approvals. During recent years, the Argentine government has increased its direct intervention in the economy, including through the implementation of expropriation and nationalization measures, price controls and exchange controls. In 2008, the Argentine government absorbed and replaced the former private pension system for a public “pay as you go” pension system As a result, all resources administered by the private pension funds, including significant equity interests in a wide range of listed companies, were transferred to a separate fund (Fondo de Garantía de Sustentabilidad, or the “FGS”) to be administered by the National Social Security Administration (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, or the “ANSES”). The dissolution of the private pension funds and the transfer of their financial assets to the FGS have had important repercussions on the financing of private sector companies. Debt and equity instruments which previously could be placed with pension fund administrators are now entirely subject to the discretion of the ANSES. Since acquiring equity interests in privately owned companies through the process of replacing the pension system, the ANSES has been entitled to designate government representatives to the boards of directors of those entities. Pursuant to Decree No. 1,278/12, issued by the Executive Branch on July 25, 2012, these representatives are to report directly to the Ministry of Economy and are subject to a mandatory information-sharing regime, under which, among other obligations, they must immediately inform the Ministry of Economy of the agenda for each board of directors meeting and provide related documentation. Within the energy sector in which we operate, in April 2012, the Argentine government decreed the removal of directors and senior officers of YPF S.A. (“YPF”), the country’s largest oil and gas company, which was controlled by the Spanish group Repsol, and submitted a bill to Congress to expropriate 51% of the shares of YPF. This billultimately was approved by the Argentine Congress in May 2012 through the passage of Law No. 26,741, which also declared hydrocarbons self-sufficiency, production, industrialization, transport and marketing to be activities of public interest and primary goals of Argentina, and empowered the Argentine government to take the measures necessary to achieve such goals. See “—Factors Relating to Our Business—The Argentine government has intervened in the oil and gas industry in the past, and is likely to continue to intervene.” Our business and operations in Argentina may also be adversely affected by measures adopted by the Argentine government to address inflation. For example, increases in the costs of services and labor could negatively affect our results of operations if we are not permitted to pass those costs along to customers in the tariffs which we charge due to the imposition of price controls. See “—Factors Relating to Our Business—Limitations on local pricing in Argentina may adversely affect our results of operations.” Most recently, on April 10, 2013, Secretary of Domestic Trade Resolution No. 35/13 was published in the Official Gazette, setting maximum sales prices for liquid fuels for a period of six months. For purposes of this resolution, the country is divided into six regions, and the maximum liquid fuels sales price for each region is set at the highest price of liquid fuels as of April 9, 2013 in the applicable region. In addition, on October 26, 2011 the Argentine government issued Decree No. 1,722/11, providing that all foreign currency revenues obtained from exports made by mining and oil and gas companies must be repatriated and sold within the local foreign exchange market, which is the general regime applicable to revenues generated by Argentine exports. Prior to the issuance of this decree, we were allowed to retain overseas up to 70% of the proceeds of certain exports. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Controls” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Description of Indebtedness.” It is widely reported by private economists that expropriations, price controls, exchange controls and other direct involvement by the Argentine government in the economy have had an adverse impact on the level of investment in Argentina, the access of Argentine companies to the international capital markets and Argentina’s commercial and diplomatic relations with other countries. The level of government intervention in the economy may continue or increase, which may adversely affect Argentina’s economy and, in turn, our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents The Argentine economy can be adversely affected by economic developments in other markets and by more general “contagion” effects, which could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to external shocks that could be caused by adverse developments affecting its principal trading partners. A significant decline in the economic growth of any of Argentina’s major trading partners could have a material adverse impact on Argentina’s balance of trade and adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth. For example, recent economic slowdowns, especially in Argentina’s major trading partners, have led to declines in Argentine exports in 2012. Declining demand for Argentine exports, or a decline in the international market prices for those products, could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. In addition, financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced by economic and market conditions in other markets worldwide. For example, the recent challenges faced by the European Union to stabilize certain of its member economies, such as Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have had international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets, which has hindered economies worldwide. Should measures taken by the European Union be insufficient to restore confidence and stability to the financial markets, any recovery of the global economy, including the U.S. and European Union economies, could be hindered or reversed, which could negatively affect the Argentine economy, and in turn our business and results of operations. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perceptions of events occurring in other countries have in the past substantially affected, and may continue to substantially affect, capital flows into and investments in securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. International investors’ reactions to events occurring in one market sometimes demonstrate a “contagion” effect in which an entire region or class of investment is disfavored by international investors, Argentina could be adversely affected by negative economic or financial developments in other countries, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Argentine financial system and securities markets will not be adversely affected by events in developed countries’ economies or events in other emerging markets. A slowdown in economic activity in Argentina would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A lack of financing for Argentine companies, whether due to market forces or government regulation, may negatively impact our financial condition or cash flows. The prospects for Argentine companies of accessing financial markets might be limited in terms of the amount of financing available, and the conditions and cost of such financing. Following the default on its external debt in 2001, the government of Argentina sought to restructure its outstanding debt by offering holders of the defaulted bonds two opportunities to exchange them for newly issued debt securities, in 2005 and again in 2010. Holders of approximately 93% of Argentina’s defaulted debt participated in the exchanges. Nonetheless, a number of bondholders who held out from the exchange offers have initiated legal actions against the Argentine government. Since late 2012, rulings favorable to those bondholders in pending cases have deepened doubts about Argentina’s ability to service its debt under the terms of foreign judgments, and have exacerbated investors’ uncertainties as well as increased sovereign risk. A final, unappealable judgment against Argentina in these pending cases could lead to a default on its public debt and further reduce the sources of funding and investment capital that are available to Argentina, which could limit the government’s ability to adopt measures to promote economic growth. In addition, the foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies, including public utilities and certain bondholders that did not participate in the exchange offers described above, have filed claims in excess of U.S.$15 billion with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (the “ICSID”), alleging that the emergency measures adopted by the Argentine government in 2002 do not meet the just and equal treatment requirements of several bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. The developments described above, the global economic crisis that started in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the resulting international stock market crash and the insolvency of major financial institutions toward the end of 2008, have generally limited the ability of Argentine companies to access international financial markets as they had in the past or made such access significantly more costly for Argentine issuers. Between June 2009 and 2011, a greater number of Argentine companies gained access to the international capital markets, albeit at conditions more onerous than competitors based in other countries in the region. This trend toward Argentine access to such markets was reversed in 2012. See “—Government intervention in the Argentine economy could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.” Argentina’s past default and its ongoing litigation with holdout creditors, and economic policy measures adopted by the Argentine government, may continue to prevent Argentine companies such as us from accessing the international capital markets readily or render the financial conditions of such access significantly more onerous than for companies in other countries in the region, and may therefore negatively impact our financial condition or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Factors Relating to Our Business Substantial or extended declines and volatility in the prices of crude oil, oil products and natural gas may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of crude oil, oil products and natural gas. Factors affecting international prices for crude oil and related oil products include: political developments in crude oil producing regions, particularly the Middle East; the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other crude oil producing nations to set and maintain crude oil production levels and prices; global and regional supply and demand for crude oil; competition from other energy sources; domestic and foreign government regulations; weather conditions; and global conflicts or acts of terrorism. We have no control over these factors. Changes in crude oil prices generally result in changes in prices for related products. International oil prices have fluctuated widely over the last ten years. Substantial or extended declines in international prices of crude oil and related oil products may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the value of our proved reserves. In addition, significant decreases in the prices of crude oil and related oil products may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserves estimates in the future. Argentine oil and gas production concessions and exploration permits are subject to certain conditions and may not be renewed or could be revoked. Law No. 17,319 (the “Hydrocarbons Law”) provides for oil and gas concessions to remain in effect for 25 years as from the date of their award, and further provides for the concession term to be extended for up to 10 additional years, subject to terms and conditions approved by the grantor at the time of the extension. The authority to extend the terms of current and new permits, concessions and contracts has been vested with the government of the province in which the relevant area is located (and the Argentine government in respect of offshore areas beyond 12 nautical miles). In order to be eligible for the extension, any concessionaire and permit holder must have complied with its obligations under the Hydrocarbons Law and the terms of the particular concession or permit, including evidence of payment of taxes and royalties, the supply of the necessary technology, equipment and labor force and compliance with various environmental, investment and development obligations. Under the Hydrocarbons Law, non-compliance with these obligations and standards may also result in the imposition of fines and, in the case of material breaches, following the expiration of applicable cure periods, the revocation of the concession or permit. On April 4, 2012, we were served notice of a decision of the government of the Province of Neuquén to terminate the Company’s production concession in the Veta Escondida area. The Company has sought judicial relief, maintaining that it has complied with all requirements under the concession and that it did not commit any breaches which would support the decision adopted by the government of Neuquén. The Company understands that under the terms of the concession as granted, and the understanding reached with the Province of Neuquén in connection with the negotiation of the extension of the Veta Escondida concession as reflected in the Memorandum of Agreement dated December 10, 2008, ratified by the Provincial Executive Branch of Neuquén, the concession is scheduled to terminate by 2027. On June 28, 2012, the Company was served with an order rendered by the Argentine Supreme Court, upholding the provisional remedy obtained by the Company from the lower courts and instructing the Province of Neuquén to refrain from executing the termination of the concession until a ruling on the merits of the case is delivered. The termination or revocation of our concession in the Veta Escondida area or other of our current concessions or permits, or failure to obtain the extension of such concessions or permits could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of Our Business.” Additionally, we cannot provide assurances that additional investment, royalty payment or other requirements will not be imposed on us in order to obtain extensions of such concessions or permits. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Statistical Information Relating to Oil and Gas Production.” Our crude oil and natural gas reserves estimates involve some degree of uncertainty which could adversely affect our ability to generate income. The proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this Annual Report account for our estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids (“NGL”) that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions according to applicable regulations. Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are those that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Reserves.” Proved reserve estimates could be materially different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, and downward revisions of our estimates could impact our future results of operations and business plan, including our level of capital expenditures. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to replace our oil and gas reserves and this may have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have experienced a decline in reserves and production, including as a result of the sale of our interest in Petrobras de Valores Internacional de España S.L. (“PVIE”), new regulations in Bolivia which prevent us from accounting for reserves (see “Item 4. Information on the Company— Business Overview—Reserves—Internal Control over Proved Reserves”) as well as our decision not to migrate to service contracts for Block 18 and Palo Azul Unified Field in Ecuador. The possibility of replacing our crude oil and gas reserves in the future is dependent on our ability to access new reserves, both through successful exploration and reserve acquisitions. We consider exploration, which carries inherent risks and uncertainties, to be our main vehicle for future growth and reserves replacement. Without successful exploration activities or reserve acquisitions, our proved reserves would decline as our oil and gas production would be forced to rely on our current portfolio of assets. We cannot guarantee that our exploration, development and acquisition activities will allow us to offset the decline of our reserves. If we are not able to successfully find, develop or acquire sufficient additional reserves, our reserves and therefore our production may continue to decline and, consequently, this may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. The Argentine government has intervened in the oil and gas industry in the past, and is likely to continue to intervene. The Argentine government has historically excercised significant influence over the economy, including the energy sector, and companies such as us which operate in that sector have done so in a heavily regulated environment, aimed primarily at ensuring the satisfaction of domestic demand. To address the Argentine crisis of 2001 and 2002, the Argentine Congress enacted the Public Emergency Law and other emergency regulations, some of which remain in effect to date. Some of these regulations introduced a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the oil and gas industry in Argentina, and to other industries in which the Company’s affiliates are active, such as the electricity industry. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Public Emergency Law is still in effect. In addition, the Argentine government continues to introduce material changes to the regulatory regime applicable to the oil and gas industry, such as the recent modifications to the Petróleo Plus (“Oil Plus”), program, the revocation of the Refinación Plus (“Refining Plus”) program, and the obligation to repatriate and sell in the local market 100% of the foreign currency revenues obtained from oil and gas exports. On April 17, 2012, the Argentine government submitted a bill to the Argentine Congress calling for the expropriation of 51% of the shares of YPF owned by Repsol YPF S.A. (Spain). Effective May 7, 2012, the Argentine Congress enacted Law No. 26,741, sanctioning the expropriation of 51% of YPF’s Class D shares, out of the shares then held by Repsol YPF S.A. (Spain), and 51% of Repsol YPF GAS S.A., represented by 60% of its Class A shares then held by Repsol Butano S.A. (Spain). Under the terms of the law, the hydrocarbon activities (including the exploitation, industrialization, transportation and commercialization thereof) in the territory of Argentina qualify as a “national public interest.” We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government with respect to the oil and gas industry will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Limits on exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations. In recent periods, the Argentine government has introduced a series of measures limiting exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products, which have prevented us from profiting from higher prices of these commodities in the international markets, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. In April 2004, to facilitate the recovery of natural gas prices, the SE entered into an agreement with natural gas producers, requiring them to sell a specified amount of gas in the local regulated market. During 2006, the SE required producers to redirect gas earmarked for export to supply local thermal power plants and gas distribution companies. In January 2007, the SE confirmed that the ability to export hydrocarbons would be subject to the satisfaction of domestic demand and that export would have to be authorized on a case-by-case basis by the SE. These measures prevented us from benefiting from higher margins in the international markets. In 2007, upon the expiration of the aforementioned agreement, the Argentine government and producers signed a new agreement effective until 2011 aimed at securing the domestic supply of gas. On January 5, 2012, the Secretary of Energy decided to extend the temporary allocation rules and other criteria established by Resolution No. 599/2007 to set obligations for the timely supply of natural gas, as established under the agreement with natural gas producers in effect from 2007 through 2011. 12 Table of Contents Under these agreements, temporary limits on certain natural gas exports have been imposed to avoid a crisis in the local supply of natural gas, depriving us of higher margins in the international markets. Pursuant to SE Resolution No. 1,679/04, since December 2004, producers must obtain the approval of the Argentine government prior to exporting crude oil or diesel oil. To obtain this approval, exporters must demonstrate that they have either satisfied local demand requirements or have granted the domestic market the opportunity to acquire oil or diesel oil under terms similar to current domestic market prices and, in the case of diesel oil, they must also demonstrate, if applicable, that commercial terms offered to the domestic market are at least equal to those offered to their own gas station network. Furthermore, in December 2006, pursuant to SE Resolution No. 1,338/06, the SE extended these regulations to the export of gasoline, fuel oil and fuel oil mixtures, aero kerosene, jet fuel, lubricants, asphalts, coke and by-products for use in the petrochemical industry. In January 2008, the Argentine government temporarily prohibited the exports of gasoline and diesel oil until the domestic market was fully supplied at the prices in force on October 31, 2007. These restrictions may significantly and adversely affect the profitability of our operations, preventing us from capturing the upside of export prices, and negatively impacting the total volume of refined products sold in the domestic market, due to our need to manage crude oil volumes processed in accordance with our storage capacity. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not increase export restrictions on hydrocarbons and related oil products. If it were to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be further adversely affected. Export taxes on our products have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, the profitability of our operations. On March 1, 2002, the Argentine government imposed a withholding tax on exports of hydrocarbons, initially lasting five years. This tax framework prevented us from benefiting from significant increases in international prices for oil, oil related products and natural gas, hindered us from offsetting sustained increases in costs endemic to the energy industry, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. Effective November 2007, the Ministry of Economy adopted a more onerous method for calculating withholding taxes on exports of crude oil and certain oil by-products. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors affecting our consolidated results of operations—Regulations of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Withholding Taxes on Exports.” We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will reduce current export tax rates or will not increase them further. We cannot predict the impact that any changes may have on our results of operations and financial condition. Limitations on local pricing in Argentina may adversely affect our results of operations. In recent years, due to regulatory, economic and government policy factors, our domestic crude oil, gasoline, diesel and other fuel prices have frequently lagged substantially behind prevailing international and regional market prices for such products, and our ability to increase prices has been limited. Likewise, the prices at which we sell natural gas in Argentina (particularly to the residential sector) are subject to government regulations and currently are substantially below regional market prices for natural gas. Most recently, on April 10, 2013, Secretary of Domestic Trade Resolution No. 35/13 was published in the Official Gazette, setting maximum sales prices for liquid fuels for a period of six months. For purposes of this resolution, the country is divided into six regions, and the maximum liquid fuels sales price for each region is set at the highest price of liquid fuels as of April 9, 2013 in the applicable region. For additional information on domestic pricing for our products, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors Affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations—Regulation of the Energy Industry in Argentina” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of our Business—Argentine Regulatory Framework.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase the domestic prices of our products, and limitations on our ability to do so will continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we cannot assure you that hydrocarbon prices in Argentina will track increases or decreases in hydrocarbon prices in the international or regional markets. Oil and gas prices could affect our level of capital expenditures. The prices that we are able to obtain for our hydrocarbon products affect the viability of investments in new exploration, development and refining activities, and as a result the timing and amount of our projected capital expenditures for such purposes. We budget capital expenditures by taking into account, among other things, market prices for our hydrocarbon products. In the event that current domestic prices decrease, our ability to improve our hydrocarbon recovery rates, identify new reserves and carry out certain of our other capital expenditure plans is likely to be affected, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The Argentine government and our affiliated utility companies are in the process of renegotiating utility contracts, and the recoverability of our investments in these affiliates depends on the successful completion of these negotiations. The macroeconomic situation of the country after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law impacted the economic and financial condition of utility companies in Argentina. The combined effect of (i) the devaluation of the peso in 2002, (ii) the government decision to freeze rates in pesos without reflecting the impact of the devaluation and (iii) financial debts primarily denominated in foreign currency, adversely affected the financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy financial obligations and pay dividends of utility companies. Although some of these utility companies have been successful in restructuring their indebtedness, their return to financial stability and profitability on a long-term basis depends on a successful negotiation of tariff increases with the Argentine government. Edesur S.A. (“EDESUR”), which we sold on January 30, 2013 (see “Item 4—Gas and Energy—Electricity—Our investment in Distrilec/EDESUR”), and our affiliate Transportadora de Gas del Sur S.A. (“TGS”) have engaged in negotiations with the Utilities Contract Renegotiation and Analysis Committee (Unidad de Renegociación y Análisis de Contratos de Servicios Públicos) (“UNIREN”). However, to date, these discussions have not resulted in tariff increases sufficient for these former and current affiliated utility companies to return to financial stability and profitability. See “Item 4—Gas and Energy—Gas Transportation—TGS—Tariff Renegotiation Process,” “Item 4—Gas and Energy—Electricity—Electricity Distribution: EDESUR” and “Item 4—Regulation of Our Business—Argentine Regulatory Framework—Natural Gas and Electricity.” Our operations could be adversely affected by events beyond our control. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed, interrupted or canceled as a result of weather conditions, mechanical difficulties, shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment, coercive actions and compliance with governmental requirements, or other events that could adversely impact our costs of production, results of operation and financial condition. For example, from March 9, 2007 to April 10, 2007, operations in Block 18, in Ecuador, were curtailed as a result of coercive actions taken by local communities. During this period, cumulative oil production decreased by approximately 305,000 barrels of oil equivalent in our participation. Future events beyond our control may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our activities may be adversely affected by events in other countries in which we do business. Our operations are concentrated in Latin America, a region that has experienced significant economic, social, political and regulatory volatility. In recent periods, many governments in Latin America have taken steps to assert greater control or increase their share of revenues from the energy sector, spurred by soaring oil and gas prices and nationalist politics. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of our Businesses—Venezuelan Regulatory Framework” and “—Bolivian Regulatory Framework.” These risks are evidenced by changes in business conditions that we have experienced in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors Affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Production—Production Outside Argentina.” We could be subject to organized labor action. Many of our operations are highly labor-intensive and require a significant number of workers. The sectors in which we operate are largely unionized. We have experienced organized work disruptions and stoppages in the past, frequently due to strikes by employees of contractors we employ. We cannot assure you that we will not experience such disruptions or work stoppages in the future, and any such action could adversely affect our business and revenues. In 2008, unionized employees went on strike over salary increases, adversely affecting our operations. In 2008, in the Austral basin in Argentina, the pace of production slowed as a result of the labor strike held by our contractor’s employees throughout May 2008, with an adverse impact on production levels in subsequent months. During each of 2009, 2010 and, to a lesser extent, 2011 and 2012, gas production in the Austral basin was affected by labor strikes. We do not maintain insurance coverage for business interruptions, including business interruptions caused by labor actions. Strikes, picketing or other types of conflict with the unionized personnel may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our operations could cause environmental damage, and any changes in environmental laws or regulations may increase our operational costs. Some of our operations are subject to environmental risks that may arise unexpectedly and result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage, clean-up and repair expenses, equipment damage and liability in civil and administrative proceedings. We cannot assure you that we will not incur additional costs related to the environment in the future, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that the insurance coverage that we maintain is adequate to cover the losses that may potentially arise from these environmental risks. Furthermore, we are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations both in Argentina and in the other countries in which we operate. Local, provincial and national authorities in Argentina and other countries where we operate may implement new environmental laws and regulations, and are moving towards more stringent enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations, both of which may require us to incur higher compliance costs. For example, various initiatives in regions outside of Argentina have been made or proposed to regulate hydraulic fracturing processes (which involve injecting water, sand and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore), and drilling activities for non-conventional oil and gas reserves. The imposition of stringent regulatory and permitting requirements related to these practices in Argentina could significantly increase our cost of doing business. We cannot predict the overall effects of implementing new environmental laws and regulations and/or the more stringent enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Shares and ADSs Our principal shareholders can exercise control over the Company. As of the date of this Annual Report, Petrobras holds 67.2%of our capital stock and voting rights and the ANSES holds approximately 11.8% of our shares and voting rights. Petrobras will be able to determine or exercise significant influence on substantially all matters requiring approval by a majority of our shareholders, including the election of a majority of our directors. Petrobras will also direct our operations and may be able to cause or prevent a change in our control. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” Restrictions on capital outflows imposed by Argentina may impair your ability to receive dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds of any sale of, the shares underlying the ADSs. Argentine law currently permits the government to impose temporary restrictions on capital movements in circumstances where a serious imbalance develops in Argentina’s balance of payments or where there are reasons to foresee such an imbalance. Additionally, commencing in October 2011, new regulations have been introduced by the Argentine government regarding the transfer of foreign currency abroad. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Controls.” We cannot assure you that Argentina will not impose restrictions on capital outflows and/or foreign exchange which could impair or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions, or the proceeds from any sale of shares, as the case may be, from pesos into U.S. dollars and the remittance of the U.S. dollars abroad. Under the terms of our Deposit Agreement with the depositary for the ADSs, the depositary will convert any cash dividend or other cash distribution we pay on the shares underlying the ADSs into U.S. dollars if, in the judgment of the depositary, that conversion can be made on a practicable basis, and shall distribute such U.S. dollars in accordance with the Deposit Agreement, subject, in each case, to any restrictions under Argentine laws or regulations or applicable permits issued by an Argentine governmental body. If the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. 15 Table of Contents Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be different from those in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Law No. 19,550 (the “Argentine Companies Law”), which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, rules governing the Argentine securities markets are different and may be subject to different enforcement in Argentina than in other jurisdictions. Sales of a substantial number of shares could decrease the market prices of our shares and the ADSs. Petrobras owns shares representing a significant majority of our capital stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares or ADSs by Petrobras, the ANSES, or any other future significant shareholder, or the anticipation of such sales, could decrease the trading price of our shares and ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive, accretion or other rights with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs. You may not be able to exercise the preemptive or accretion rights relating to the shares underlying your ADSs (see “Item 10. Additional Information—Preemptive Rights”) unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) is made effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration is available, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of your preemptive rights by the depositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. As a result, U.S. holders of our shares or ADSs may suffer dilution of their interest in our company upon future capital increases. In addition, under the Argentine Companies Law, foreign companies that own shares in an Argentine corporation are required to register with the Inspección General de Justicia (Superintendency of Legal Entities, or the “IGJ”) in order to exercise certain shareholder rights, including voting rights. If you own our shares directly (rather than in the form of ADSs) and you are a non-Argentine company and you fail to register with the IGJ, your ability to exercise your rights as a holder of our shares may be limited. You may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings. The depositary will be treated by us for all purposes as the shareholder with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs. As a holder of American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”) representing the ADSs being held by the depositary in your name, you will not have direct shareholder rights and may exercise voting rights with respect to the shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the Deposit Agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Argentine law or under our bylaws that limit the exercise by ADS holders of their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying shares. However, there are practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with these holders. ADS holders may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs as a result of these practical limitations. Shareholders outside Argentina may face additional investment risk from currency exchange rate fluctuations in connection with their holding of our shares or ADSs. We are an Argentine company and any future payments of dividends on our shares will be denominated in pesos. The peso has historically fluctuated significantly against many major world currencies, including the U.S. dollar. A depreciation of the peso would likely adversely affect the U.S. dollar or other currency equivalent of any dividends paid on our shares and could result in a decline in the value of our shares and ADSs as measured in U.S. dollars. 16 Table of Contents 