Risk Factors An investment in our capital stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our capital stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our company and business operations would be severely damaged and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. 3 Due to our rapid growth in recent years, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance so evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult. Our business has grown and evolved rapidly in recent years as demonstrated by our growth in sales revenue from approximately $196.3 million in 2008 to $253.9 million in 2010. Our net income has grown from approximately $21.6 million in 2008 to approximately $47.1 million in 2010. We may not be able to achieve similar growth in future periods. Therefore, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects in the future. Moreover, our ability to achieve satisfactory operating results at higher production and sales volumes is unproven. You should not rely on our past results or our historical rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. A large percentage of our revenues are derived from sales to a limited number of customers and our business will suffer if sales to these customers decline. We currently sell high precision steel products to more than 20 major customers in the Chinese domestic market. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, sales revenues generated from our top 10 customers amounted to 33.4% and 36.9% of total sales revenues, respectively, and sales to our largest single customer for the same periods amounted to 8.5% and 8.4% of our total sales revenues, respectively. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers and therefore cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. The loss of any of our largest customers would likely have a material negative impact on our sales revenues and business. Our customers operate in highly competitive markets, and they may be willing to accept substitutes in lieu of our products. Our customers and other users of cold-rolled steel products operate in highly competitive markets, which are becoming increasingly cost-conscious. Cold-rolled precision steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for industrial and commercial applications. Customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for cold-rolled steel. If our customers increasingly utilize substitutes for cold-rolled steel products in their operations, sales of our products will decline and our business and results of operations will suffer. We may be unable to fund the substantial ongoing capital and maintenance expenditures that our operations require. Our operations are capital intensive and our business strategy is likely to require additional substantial capital investment. We completed an underwritten public offering in November 2009 and a private placement financing in June 2010 in which we raised total net proceeds of approximately $43 million. As of the end of the first quarter of 2011, we have used the net proceeds from the aforementioned financings to expand our cold-rolled steel processing capacity from 250,000 metric tons per annum to 400,000 metric tons per annum and to add 200,000 metric tons per annum of capacity to our 50,000-metric ton-per-annum chromium plating line so as to be capable of chromium-plating 250,000 tons of cold-rolled steel per annum. The estimated total capital expenditure for these expansion projects was approximately $42 million. We plan to expand our annual production capacity an additional 100,000 metric tons to 500,000 metric tons by the first quarter of 2012 in order to meet expected demand for our products. This additional expansion will require an estimated capital expenditure of $12 to $15 million. We may also need additional capital to maintain the condition of our existing equipment and comply with environmental laws and regulation. Although we received $66.5 million in proceeds from warrant exercises in the first quarter of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and plan to use such proceeds for our capital expansion program, our capital expenditure plans and estimates are subject to change as determined by our management and we may determine that we do not have sufficient cash on hand to fund our capital expansion program without seeking external capital funds. Sourcing external capital funds for these purposes are key factors that have constrained and may in the future constrain our growth, production capability and profitability. To the extent that we finance our capital expansion and maintenance projects with debt financing, we may become subject to financial covenants or operating covenants that restrict our ability to freely operate our business or take actions that are desired by shareholders, such as the payment of dividends. If we elect to finance our capital expansion and maintenance plans through equity financing, our shareholders may experience dilution or may have their voting or economic rights as shareholders subordinated to a senior class of stock. In either event, we may be unable to find external sources of financing on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain external financing for our capital expansion and maintenance projects can severely impede our growth plans and strategy and impair our revenue, earnings and overall financial performance. 4 If we have miscalculated the future demand for our products, we may wind up unnecessarily spending a significant amount of funds on the expansion of our manufacturing facilities. As described immediately above, we have spent almost all of the $43 million in total proceeds from our November 2009 underwritten public offering and June 2010 private placement to construct additional manufacturing facilities Our future expansion plans will add an additional 100,000 metric tons per annum of manufacturing capacity at an estimated cost of $12-$15 million, allowing us to produce up to approximately 500,000 metric tons of our high precision, cold rolled steel products annually once construction is completed. The scope and timing of our expansion plans has been based on our internal projections and estimated demand for our products. If our projections are incorrect and the actual demand for our products is less than our projections, we may expend a significant amount of capital on an expansion project which ultimately may not have been needed. The recent global economic crisis could impair the steel industry thereby limiting demand for our products and affecting the overall availability and cost of external financing for our operations. The repetition, continuation or intensification of the recent global economic crisis and turmoil in the global financial markets may adversely impact our business, the businesses of our customers from whom we generate revenues and our potential sources of capital financing. Our high precision, cold rolled steel products parts are primarily sold to customers who operate in the food and industrial packaging, construction and household decorations materials, electrical appliances, and telecommunications wires and cables industries. The global economic crisis harmed most industries and has been particularly detrimental to the steel industry. Since virtually all of our sales are made to end users in other industries, our sales and business operations are dependent on the financial health of both the steel industry and other industries in which our customers operate. Therefore, our business could suffer if our customers experience, or continue to experience, difficulties in their respective industries or a downturn in their business. Presently, it is unclear whether and to what extent the economic stimulus measures and other actions taken or contemplated by the Chinese government and other governments throughout the world will mitigate the effects of the crisis on the steel industry and other industries that affect our business. Although these conditions have not presently impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, the impact of the current crisis on our ability to obtain capital financing in the future, and the cost and terms of same, is unclear. A downturn or negative changes in the highly volatile steel industry will harm our business and profitability. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions, both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. Pricing can be volatile as a result of general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply and wide fluctuations in results of operations both in China and globally. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which may further reduce demand for steel. Additional overcapacity or the use of alternative products could hurt our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with changing technology and manufacturing techniques, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our ability to implement our business plan and to achieve the results projected by management will depend on management's ability to anticipate technological advances in our industry and implement strategies to take advantage of technological change. We may be unable to address technological advances or introduce new designs or products that may be necessary to remain competitive within the steel industry. We produce steel products that are characterized by stringent performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate our services and products on the basis of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 5 ● quality, ● price competitiveness, ● technical expertise and development capability, ● innovation, ● reliability and timeliness of delivery, ● product design capability, ● operational flexibility, ● customer service, and ● overall management. Our success depends on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing requirements and specifications with respect to these and other criteria. There can be no assurance that we will be able to address technological advances or introduce new designs or products that may be necessary to remain competitive within the precision steel industry. Our revenues will decrease if there is less demand for the end product in which our products are installed. Our finished steel products mainly serve as key components in food and industrial packaging, construction and household decorations materials, electrical appliances, and telecommunications wires and cables. Therefore, we are subject to the general changes in economic conditions affecting the food and industrial packaging, construction and household decorations materials, electrical appliance, and telecommunications wires and cables industries. If our customers which operate in these industries experience a downturn in their business or if they utilize substitutes for our products in their manufacturing operations, demand for our products and our business results will suffer. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel manufacturing and processing operations are subject to numerous Chinese provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We are subject to regulations regarding emissions and waste disposal and management. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our business and operating results could suffer if we were required to increase our expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting our operations. Our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to fulfill all of our debt obligations and may reduce the amount of cash available for maintaining and growing our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues. Our total debt under existing bank loans and lines of credit to the Company as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $130.3 million. Although we had unrestricted cash of approximately $119.5 million as of December 31, 2010, and had received net proceeds of approximately $66.5 million from the proceeds of warrant exercises during the first quarter of our fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011, we have elected to reserve the use of such cash and proceeds for our capital expansion program and have recently renewed all existing bank loans and lines of credit. This indebtedness and the incurrence of any new indebtedness could (i) make it more difficult for us to satisfy and pay our existing liabilities and obligations, which could in turn result in an event of default, (ii) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes, (iii) impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes, (iv) diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business, the industry in which we operate or the economy generally, (v) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, or (vi) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all, which could cause us to default on our debt service obligations and be subject to foreclosure on such loans. Additionally, we could incur additional indebtedness in the future and, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks above could intensify. 6 We face significant competition from competitors with greater resources, and we may not have the resources necessary to successfully compete with them. The steel manufacturing and processing business is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete with a large number of other steel manufacturers and processors in China, on a region-by-region basis, and with foreign steel manufacturers, such as POSCO Steel, on a world wide basis. Our competitors are of various sizes, some of which have more established brand names and relationships in certain markets than we do. We are not in direct competition with China’s large state-owned steel companies because those companies concentrate on the production of hot-rolled steel. As such, they are more often a raw material supplier to us, rather than a competitor. We are one of a limited number of specialty precision cold-rolled steel producers in China. Differences in the type and nature of the specialty precision steel products in China’s steel industry are relatively small and, coupled with intense competition from international and local suppliers and customer price sensitivity, competition can be fierce. Our competitors may increase their market share through pricing strategies that damage our business. Since our industry is capital-intensive, our competitors may be able to successfully compete with us if their financial resources, staff and facilities are substantially greater than ours, placing us at a competitive disadvantage to these larger companies. Any decrease in the availability, or increase in the cost, of raw materials could materially reduce our earnings. Our business operations depend heavily on the availability of various raw materials and energy resources, primarily steel coil, but also chromium, tin, zinc, oil paint and electricity. Steel coil has historically accounted for approximately 90% of our total cost of sales. The availability of raw materials and energy resources may decrease and their prices may fluctuate greatly. We purchase a large portion of our raw materials from Zhengzhou Ganlian Trading Co. Ltd. and Zhengzhou Zhongchu Materials Distribution Center, but we currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any particular supplier to assure a continued supply of raw materials. While we maintain good relationships with these suppliers, the supply of raw materials may nevertheless be interrupted on account of events outside our control, which will negatively impact our operations. If these or any other important suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with raw materials on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to produce certain products. This could result in a decrease in profit and damage to our reputation in our industry. So far we have been able to pass most raw material cost increases on to our customers. However, if our raw material and energy costs increase to such an extent that we cannot pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or at all, our margins will suffer. Although we currently benefit from favorable pricing in some of these supply contracts, if market prices for these raw materials decline, we may not be able to take advantage of decreasing market prices, and our profit margins may suffer. We produce a limited number of products and may not be able to respond quickly to significant changes in the market or new market entrants. Cold-rolled specialty precision steel manufacturing is a relatively new industry in China. Previously, our customers which manufacture durable goods have relied solely on imports from Japan, Korea, the European Union and the United States. We believe the average quality and standards of products of China’s high precision steel industry lags behind international standards. While we offer five series and over 20 types of high-precision steel products and believe we have developed a nationally recognizable brand, there are many other specialty precision steel products of similar nature in the market. As of December 31, 2010, we have not yet penetrated the international market and have not developed an internationally recognizable brand for specialty steel products. If there are significant changes in market demand and/or competitive forces, we may not be able to change our product mix or adapt our production equipment quickly enough to meet customers’ needs. Under such circumstances, our narrow band of precision steel products and/or new market entrants may negatively impact our financial performance. Increased imports of steel products into China could negatively affect domestic steel demand and prices and reduce our profitability. While China’s steel production has increased rapidly in recent years, we believe that domestic production continues to be insufficient to meet demand for high-end steel products. As a result, China is expected to continue to import a significant portion of its steel products. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies, under trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could negatively impact future market prices and demand levels for our precision steel products. 7 While virtually all of our operations, customers and sales are in China, some limited administrative matters are geographically dispersed so any deterioration of general business conditions in China may make it difficult or prohibitive to continue to operate or expand our business. Our manufacturing operations are located in China and some of our administrative matters are handled in Hong Kong and the BVI. We have regulatory filing obligations in the United States. The geographical distances between our facilities create a number of logistical and communications challenges, including time differences and differences in the cultures in each location, which makes communication and effective cooperation more difficult. In addition, because of the location of the manufacturing facilities in China, our operations could be affected by, among other things: · economic and political instability in China, including problems related to labor unrest, · lack of developed infrastructure, · variances in payment cycles, · currency fluctuations, · overlapping taxes and multiple taxation issues, · employment and severance taxes, · compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements, · greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, and · the burdens of cost and compliance with a variety of foreign laws. Moreover, inadequate development or maintenance of infrastructure in China, including adequate power and water supplies, transportation, raw materials availability or the deterioration in the general political, economic or social environment could make it difficult, more expensive and possibly prohibitive to continue to operate or expand our facilities in China. Our rapid expansion could significantly strain our resources, management and operational infrastructure which could impair our ability to meet increased demand for our products and hurt our business results. To accommodate our anticipated growth, we will need to expend capital resources and dedicate personnel to implement and upgrade our accounting, operational and internal management systems and enhance our record keeping and contract tracking system. Such measures will require us to dedicate additional financial resources and personnel to optimize our operational infrastructure and to recruit more personnel to train and manage our growing employee base. If we cannot successfully implement these measures efficiently and cost-effectively, we will be unable to satisfy the demand for our products, which will impair our revenue growth and hurt our overall financial performance. Our production facilities are subject to risks of power shortages which may impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Our manufacturing processes are extremely specialized and depend on critical pieces of equipment and a constant availability of energy to power them. Many cities and provinces in China have suffered serious power shortages in recent times, largely as a result of the growth and commercialization of formerly rural regions of China. Many of the regional grids do not have sufficient power generating capacity to fully satisfy the increased demand for electricity driven by continual economic growth and persistent hot weather. In addition, China recently announced new guidelines aiming to reduce energy use and carbon emissions per unit of industrial value added output by 4 percent in 2011 compared to 2010 levels. The target levels are slightly higher than those pledged by China in its recently released 12th Five Year Plan and are part of China's plan to cut energy consumption and carbon emissions per unit of gross domestic product by 18 percent over the next five years. In 2010, electricity supplies were cut back to many industrial producers around China. Local governments have also occasionally required local factories to temporarily shut down their operations or reduce their daily operational hours in order to reduce local power consumption levels. While we have not experienced any severe or lengthy power outages in the past as a result of power outages or administrative measures, we do not have any back up power generation systems. If we are affected by administrative measures or power outages in the future, we may experience material production disruption and delays in our delivery schedule. In such event, our business, results of operation and financial conditions could be damaged. 8 Unexpected equipment failures may damage our business due to production curtailments or shutdowns. Highly specialized machinery is used in our manufacturing processes which cannot be repaired or replaced without significant expense and time delay. On occasion, our equipment may be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures which may result in plant shutdowns or periods of materially reduced production. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. Furthermore, any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. We do not have business interruption insurance to cover losses as a result of equipment failures. In addition, longer-term business disruption could result in a loss of customers. If this were to occur, our future sales levels, and therefore our profitability, could decline. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and third parties may claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we intend to accelerate our investment in new technologies in an effort to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio and make our manufacturing processes more efficient. Our primary focus will be to develop new and better technologies to allow us to manufacture higher valued-added products, such as chrome finished, zinc-plated and galvanized products. As a result, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business. We expect to rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to provide protection in this regard, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. In either case, litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and whether or not we are ultimately successful, the litigation could hurt our business and financial condition. We face risks associated with future investments or acquisitions. A component of our growth strategy is to invest in or acquire businesses complementary to ours that will enable us, among other things, to expand the products we offer to our existing target customer base, and that will provide opportunities to expand into new markets. We may be unable to identify suitable investment or acquisition candidates or to make these investments or acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. Integrating an acquired company or technology is complex, distracting and time consuming, as well as a potentially expensive process. The successful integration of an acquisition would require us to: · integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, and other personnel; · incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our offerings both from an engineering and sales and marketing perspective; · coordinate research and development efforts; · integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and · consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine back office accounting, order processing and support functions. The geographic distance between the companies, the complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined may increase the difficulties of combining an acquired company or technology. Acquired businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. Management’s focus on integrating operations may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. Our acquisition strategy also depends on our ability to obtain necessary government approvals that may be required. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations implemented in China. 9 We do not carry any business interruption insurance, product liability or recall insurance or third-party liability insurance. Operation of our business and facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages, labor disturbances, business interruptions, property damage, product liability, personal injury and death. We do not carry any business interruption insurance or third-party liability insurance for our business to cover claims in respect of product liability, personal injury or property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. Therefore, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Henan Green’s business will suffer if it loses its land use rights. There is no private ownership of land in China and all land ownership is held by the government of China, its agencies, and collectives. In the case of land used for business purposes, land use rights can be obtained from the government for a period up to 50 years, and are typically renewable. Land use rights can be granted upon approval by the land administrative authorities of China (State Land Administration Bureau) upon payment of the required land granting fee, the entry into a land use agreement with a competent governmental authority and certain other ministerial procedures. Henan Green holds land use rights for some of its occupied properties and leases the land and the building on which its main facilities are located from third parties that it reasonably believes have proper land use rights, but no assurance can be given that Henan Green’s land use rights will be renewed or that our lessors will maintain their land use rights. We have received land use certificates for certain parcels of land on which our properties reside, but we may not have followed all procedures required to obtain such certificates or paid all required fees. If the Chinese administrative authorities determine that we have not fully complied with all procedures and requirements needed to hold a land use certificate, we may be forced by the Chinese administrative authorities to retroactively comply with such procedures and requirements, which may be burdensome and require us to make payments, or such Chinese administrative authorities may invalidate or revoke our land use certificate entirely. If the land use right certificates needed for our operations are determined by the government of China to be invalid or if they are not renewed, or if we are unable to renew the lease for our facilities when it expires in 2027, we may lose production facilities or employee accommodations that would be difficult or even impossible to replace. Should we have to relocate, our workforce may be unable or unwilling to work in the new location and our business operations will be disrupted during the relocation. The relocation or loss of facilities could cause us to lose sales and/or increase its costs of production, which would negatively impact financial results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud may be adversely affected and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 20-F. Although our management concluded that our internal controls over our financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2010, they may not do so in future annual reports. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely impact the market price of our securities. We may face adverse claims from and may be liable for damages to some former shareholders of COAC based on an agreement we entered into with our original shareholders. On November 12, 2008, we entered into an Agreement of Merger and Plan of Reorganization, or the Merger Agreement, with COAC, Wealth Rainbow, Henan Green, and several of our original shareholders, Oasis Green Investments Limited, or Oasis, Plumpton Group Limited, or Plumpton, and Honest Joy Group Limited, or Honest Joy, or collectively the Original Shareholders. 10 When the parties entered into the Merger Agreement, we and the Original Shareholders expected to succeed to COAC’s liabilities and obligations as a result of the merger, but also expected to receive, as partial consideration for the merger, a significant portion of COAC’s $41.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. Additionally, in connection with the merger negotiations, the parties agreed to an earn-out arrangement whereby, upon our attainment of certain financial milestones and results, the Original Shareholders would be entitled to receive from us a total of 3,000,000 additional ordinary shares, or the Earn-Out Shares. Under the Merger Agreement, the Earn-Out Shares were to be issued and paid in three equal annual installments and distributed among the Original Shareholders as specified in the Merger Agreement for each year that we met the respective performance threshold specified therein. The parties also agreed upon customary conditions to closing, including the approval of the merger by the stockholders of COAC. Prior to and in connection with the vote of COAC’s stockholders on the proposal to merge with and into China Gerui, COAC used a significant portion of the $41.5 million in cash and cash equivalents held in trust to satisfy obligations to its stockholders in respect of the vote on the merger. Thereafter, persons holding a sufficient number of shares of COAC stock voted in favor of the merger. Notwithstanding the redemptions and the substantial depletion of funds held in COAC’s trust fund, we and the Original Shareholders consummated the merger with COAC on March 17, 2009. All COAC securities were exchanged for our equivalent securities, and COAC merged with and into the Company which survived the merger and succeeded to the rights and obligations of COAC. Shortly after completion of the merger, we and the Original Shareholders initiated discussions regarding the proper treatment of the Earn-Out Shares given that the Original Shareholders agreed to complete the merger transaction even though the expected COAC cash assets were no longer available to us as originally envisioned by the parties. As a result of the negotiations between the Original Shareholders and us regarding the appropriate treatment of the Earn-Out Shares, we and the Original Shareholders entered into an agreement dated September 15, 2009, or the Settlement Agreement, pursuant to which, we agreed to issue to the Original Shareholders an aggregate of 2,850,000 ordinary shares within ten days of entering into the agreement. The 2,850,000 shares were to be divided among the Original Shareholders in the same proportion to the amounts of the Earn-Out Shares that they would have received under the terms of the Earn-Out in the Merger Agreement. In consideration of the issuance of the ordinary shares, we and the Original Shareholders agreed to a mutual release of all claims relating to the merger, the redemptions, and the Earn-Out Shares. Some former shareholders of COAC, who are currently minority shareholders in our company, may believe that this treatment of the Earn-Out Shares and the related agreement are not in their best interests and may file adverse claims against us seeking monetary or injunctive relief. Although we do not believe such claims would have merit, if such claims are successful, our agreement with the Original Stockholders may not be enforced and we may be exposed to monetary damages to such shareholders. In addition, we may incur significant costs associated with the defense of such a lawsuit. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. Our executive officers, employees and other agents may violate applicable law in connection with the marketing or sale of our products, including China’s anti-corruption laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to the completion of our merger in March of 2009. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. However, corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. While we intend to implement measures to ensure compliance with the FCPA and Chinese anti-corruption laws by all individuals involved with our company, our employees or other agents may engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our brand and reputation, our sales activities or the price of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected if we become the target of any negative publicity as a result of actions taken by our employees or other agents. 11 We rely heavily on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. Our executive management team has a specialized knowledge of steel markets and works closely with our customers to provide products to exact specifications. Our Chairman and founder, Mr. Lu, has twenty-four years experience in the steel industry in China. In addition, the executive management team has an average of fifteen years of industry experience. Their long tenure with the company and the industry has enabled the management team to build close relationships with suppliers and customers. The expertise of management and technical innovation of the company give it a strong competitive advantage. We do not currently have employment agreements with our management team and we do not maintain key person insurance on these individuals. The loss of Mr. Lu’s services or any of our other management poses a risk to our business. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management on acceptable terms in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry and as a result, our business could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Substantially all of our operating assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China, so our business, results of operations and prospects are subject to the economic, political and legal policies, developments and conditions in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could impair our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. China’s GDP has grown consistently since 1978 (National Bureau of Statistics of China). However, we cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained in the future. If, in the future, China’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. A decrease in demand for spending in certain industries could impair our ability to remain profitable. The PRC’s economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be hindered by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. If the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency, determines that MOFCOM and CSRC approval of our recent merger was required or if other regulatory obligations are imposed upon us, we may incur sanctions, penalties or additional costs which would damage our business On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the MOFCOM and the CSRC, promulgated the Rules on Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, a new regulation with respect to the mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors that became effective on September 8, 2006 and was revised on June 22, 2009. Article 11 of the M&A Rules requires PRC companies, enterprises or natural persons to obtain MOFCOM approval in order to effectuate mergers or acquisitions between PRC companies and foreign companies legally established or controlled by such PRC companies, enterprises or natural persons. Article 40 of the M&A Rules requires that an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for overseas listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals should obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such offshore special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange, especially in the event that the offshore special purpose vehicle acquires shares of or equity interests in the PRC companies in exchange for the shares of offshore companies. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures and filing requirements for offshore special purpose vehicles seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. 12 On March 17, 2009, we completed a merger transaction with COAC, which resulted in our current ownership and corporate structure. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Jingtian & Gongcheng, Attorneys at Law, that MOFCOM and CSRC approvals were not required for our merger transaction or for the listing and trading of our securities on a trading market because we are not an offshore special purpose vehicle that is directly or indirectly controlled by PRC companies or individuals. Although the merger and acquisition regulations provide specific requirements and procedures, there are still many ambiguities in the meaning of many provisions. Further regulations are anticipated in the future, but until there has been clarification either by pronouncements, regulation or practice, there is some uncertainty in the scope of the regulations and the regulators have wide latitude in the enforcement of the regulations and approval of transactions. If the MOFCOM, CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that the MOFCOM and CSRC approvals were required, we may face sanctions by the MOFCOM, CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in China, limit our operating privileges in China, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from this offering into China, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends paid by Henan Green, or take other actions that could damage our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our securities. In 2008, Wealth Rainbow acquired 100% of the equity interest of Henan Green from 13 shareholders who are PRC nationals, following which Henan Green was changed from a domestic company into a wholly foreign owned enterprise. The prior sole owner of Wealth Rainbow and former majority owner of China Gerui is the daughter of Mingwang Lu, one of the selling shareholders of Henan Green. The M&A Regulations requires that when a foreign investor which is established or controlled by a domestic natural person acquires the equity interest of a domestic company that is related with such foreign investor, such acquisition shall be approved by the Ministry of Commerce, and the parties to the acquisition shall have the obligation to disclose the existence of any interested party relationship. China Gerui believes, based on the opinion of its PRC legal counsel, Jingtian & Gongcheng, Attorneys at Law, that all the necessary approvals and registrations for Wealth Rainbow’s acquisition of the equity interest in Henan Green had been obtained. However, there remains some uncertainty as to the interpretation and implementation of M&A Regulations with regard to the interested party relationship. If a PRC regulatory agency, such as the Ministry of Commerce, subsequently determines that the approval from the Ministry of Commerce was required for the acquisition, China Gerui may face sanctions by such PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in China, limit our operating privileges in China, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from offerings into China, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by Henan Green to us, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our securities. The PRC regulatory agency may also take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to cancel this previous acquisition. The New M&A Regulations establish more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisition in China. The New M&A Regulations establish additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors, such as ours, more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the approval of the Ministry of Commerce shall be required for transactions involving the shares of an offshore listed company being used as the acquisition consideration by foreign investors. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. If the PRC imposes restrictions designed to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely curtailed which could hurt our business and profitability. While the economy of the PRC has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth often can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Imposition of similar restrictions may lead to a slowing of economic growth, a decrease in demand for our steel products and generally damage our business and profitability. Fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our business and the value of our securities. The value of our securities will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB and our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB will affect our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has not been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. 13 Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively. We are subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regulates the conversion between Renminbi and foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises, or FIEs, are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” As a result of our ownership of Henan Green, Henan Green is a FIE. With such registration certificates, which need to be renewed annually, FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “current account” and “capital account.” Currency conversion within the scope of the “current account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct foreign investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. Further, any capital contributions to Henan Green by its offshore shareholder must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce in China or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations it may have outside of the PRC. In August 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by FIEs of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the SAFE rules. A failure by our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents in China to comply with certain PRC foreign exchange regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws. Notice on Issues Relating to Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, was issued on October 21, 2005 by SAFE (that replaced two previously issued regulations on January 24, 2005 and April 8, 2005, respectively). Notice 75 requires PRC residents (including both corporate entities and natural persons) to register with SAFE or its competent local branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China referred to as an “offshore special purpose company” for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire assets of, or equity interests in, PRC companies. Under Notice 75, a “special purpose vehicle” refers to an offshore entity established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by PRC residents for the purpose of seeking offshore equity financing using assets or interests owned by such PRC residents in onshore companies. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the SAFE or its competent local branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any of its increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. The SAFE regulations require retroactive approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore special purpose companies. To further clarify the implementation of Notice 75, SAFE issued Notice 106 in May, 2007. Under Notice 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect investment in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. 14 There still remain uncertainties as to how certain procedures and requirements under the aforesaid SAFE regulations will be enforced, and it remains unclear how these existing regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot assure that any of our shareholders or beneficial owners that are PRC citizens or residents have always complied with and will in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by Notice 75 or other related regulations. Failure by such shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with SAFE Notice 75 and Notice 106 could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Because we failed to make the payment of the transfer price of the acquisition of Henan Green’s equity interests on a timely basis pursuant to relevant PRC regulations, there is no guarantee that the PRC government will not challenge the validity of the acquisition in the future. On August 10, 2008, Wealth Rainbow entered into an equity transfer agreement with the then shareholders of Henan Green to acquire all of their equity interests in Henan Green for RMB 65.6 million (approximately $9.6 million). On October 21, 2008, Henan Green obtained the Certificate of Approval for Establishment of Enterprises with Investment of Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao and Overseas Chinese in the People’s Republic of China issued by Henan Provincial Government and a new business license was issued to Henan Green on October 30, 2008. Article 16 of the M&A Rules requires that the equity interest transfer price be paid in full within three months commencing from the issuance of the new business license to Henan Green. If the transfer price is not paid by this date, we may apply to the relevant PRC regulatory agency for an extension of up to one year from the date of the issuance of the license; provided, however, that 60% of the transfer price will be required to be paid within six months from such date, which was April 30, 2009. On January 4, 2009, we obtained the approval from the relevant PRC regulatory agency allowing us to make the full payment of the transfer price by October 30, 2009. Wealth Rainbow has fully paid the transfer price, making payments between July 2009 and September 16, 2009. However, because it did not comply with the requirement to pay 60% of the transfer price by April 30, 2009, the relevant PRC regulatory agency may challenge the validity of the acquisition in the future. Any outbreak of the Swine Flu (H1N1), severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, the Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. There have been recent outbreaks of the highly pathogenic Swine Flu, caused by the H1N1 virus, in certain regions of the world, including parts of China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur. Our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our products, and an outbreak of the Swine Flu, or a renewed outbreak of SARS, the Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem in China, could have a negative effect on our operations. Any such outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: ● quarantines or closures of our manufacturing or distribution facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, ● the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and ● a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. 15 Because Chinese law governs many of our material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Chinese law governs many of our material agreements, some of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws and contracts in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Because our funds are held in banks in uninsured PRC bank accounts, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Funds on deposit at banks and other financial institutions in the PRC are often uninsured. A significant portion of our assets are in the form of cash deposited with banks in the PRC, and in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to our funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. Our management is continuing to become more familiar with United States securities laws and will have to continue to learn about such laws which could lead to various regulatory issues. Some members of our management team are not entirely familiar with United States securities laws and will have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues and a diversion of management attention, which may harm our operations. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiary to pay certain foreign currency obligations, including dividends, is subject to restrictions. Our ability to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balances. Since substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a majority of our revenues are generated in China, a significant portion of our revenue earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Renminbi is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, if any, on our ordinary shares or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. In addition, current regulations in China would permit Henan Green to pay dividends to us only out of Henan Green’s accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, Henan Green will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such reserve account may not be distributed as cash dividends. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the conversion rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. 16 Our business could be severely harmed if the Chinese government changes its policies, laws, regulations, tax structure or its current interpretations of its laws, rules and regulations relating to our operations in China. Our manufacturing facility is located in Henan, China and virtually all of our assets are located in China. We currently generate our sales revenue only from customers located in China. Our results of operations, financial state of affairs and future growth are, to a significant degree, subject to China’s economic, political and legal development and related uncertainties. Our operations and results could be materially affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to · Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation of laws or regulations, · changes in taxation, · changes in employment restrictions, · restrictions on imports and sources of supply, · import duties, and · currency revaluation. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activities and greater economic decentralization. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue its present policies that encourage foreign investment and operations in China, or if these policies are either not successful or are significantly altered, then our business could be harmed. Following the Chinese government’s policy of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to augment its revenues through increased tax collection. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Continued efforts to increase tax revenues could result in increased taxation expenses being incurred by us. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation, the inadequate development of infrastructure and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation and communications. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese laws and regulations which govern our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain and may be changed in a way that hurts our business. China’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We are considered an FIE under Chinese laws, and as a result, we must comply with Chinese laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations may have on our business. If the relevant authorities find us to be in violation of Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: levying fines; revoking our business and other licenses; requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the Chinese economy may materially and adversely affect our customers’ demand for our services and our business. All of our operations are conducted in China and all of our revenues are generated from sales to businesses operating in China. Although the Chinese economy has grown significantly in recent years, such growth may not continue. We do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in Chinese economy which may affect demand for precision steel products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in China may materially reduce the demand for our products and in turn harm our results of operations. 17 Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States could depress the price of our securities. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States through its entry into the World Trade Organization, controversies and trade disagreements between the United States and China may arise that depress the price of our securities. Political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our securities. Imposition of trade barriers and taxes may reduce our ability to do business internationally, and the resulting loss of revenue could harm our profitability. We may experience barriers to conducting business and trade in our targeted emerging markets in the form of delayed customs clearances, customs duties and tariffs. In addition, we may be subject to repatriation taxes levied upon the exchange of income from local currency into foreign currency, substantial taxes of profits, revenues, assets and payroll, as well as value-added tax. The markets in which we plan to operate may impose onerous and unpredictable duties, tariffs and taxes on our business and products, and there can be no assurance that this will not reduce the level of sales that we achieve in such markets, which would reduce our revenues and profits. There can be no guarantee that China will comply with the membership requirements of the World Trade Organization, which could leave us subject to retaliatory actions by other governments and reduce our ability to sell our products internationally. China has agreed that foreign companies will be allowed to import most products into any part of China. In the sensitive area of intellectual property rights, China has agreed to implement the trade-related intellectual property agreement of the Uruguay Round. There can be no assurances that China will implement any or all of the requirements of its membership in the World Trade Organization in a timely manner, if at all. If China does not fulfill its obligations as a member of the World Trade Organization, we may be subject to retaliatory actions by the governments of the countries into which we sell our products, which could render its products less attractive, thus reducing revenues and profits. The implementation of the new PRC employment contract law and increases in the labor costs in China may hurt our business and profitability. A new employment contract law became effective on January 1, 2008 in China. It imposes more stringent requirements on employers in relation to entry into fixed-term employment contracts, recruitment of temporary employees and dismissal of employees. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which also became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have worked continuously for more than one year are entitled to paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on the length of the employee’s service. Employees who waive such vacation entitlements at the request of the employer will be compensated for three times their normal daily salaries for each vacation day so waived. As a result of the new law and regulations, our labor costs may increase. There is no assurance that disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. Increases in the labor costs or future disputes with our employees could damage our business, financial condition or operating results. The Chinese government has been adopting increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety protection requirements, which could hurt our business. The continuation of our operations depends upon compliance with the applicable environmental, health and safety, fire prevention and other regulations. Any change in the scope or application of these laws and regulations may limit our production capacity or increase our cost of operation and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and operating results. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or legal proceedings. There can be no assurance that the Chinese government will not impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures, which it may not be able to pass on to our customers. 18 Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. China passed a New Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. In addition, a recent circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese group enterprises and established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC enterprise shareholders. This recent circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. In addition, the recent circular mentioned above sets out criteria for determining whether “de facto management bodies” are located in China or overseas incorporated, domestically controlled enterprises. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises established outside of China that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for overseas incorporated enterprises that are controlled by individual PRC residents like us and some of our subsidiaries. Therefore, although substantially all of our management is currently located in the PRC, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would require or permit our overseas registered entities to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. We do not currently consider our company to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, if the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on offering proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. In addition, under the New EIT law, the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Negotiated Reduction of Dividends and Interest Rates, or Notice 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008, the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, and the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation Regarding Interpretation and Recognition of Beneficial Owners under Tax Treaties, or Notice 601, which became effective on October 27, 2009, dividends from our PRC operating subsidiary paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 10%, or at a rate of 5% if our Hong Kong subsidiary is considered a “beneficial owner” that is generally engaged in substantial business activities and entitled to treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). Furthermore, the ultimate tax rate will be determined by treaty between the PRC and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiary. We are actively monitoring the proposed withholding tax and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to minimize the corresponding tax impact. Dividends declared and paid from pre-January 1, 2008 distributable profits are grandfathered under the New EIT Law and are not subject to withholding tax. 19 We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, released a circular on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies, generally referred to as Circular 698. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698, which provides parties with a short period of time to comply with its requirements, indirectly taxes foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a Chinese company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term “indirectly transfer” is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our Company complies with the Circular 698. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR ORDINARY SHARES GENERALLY The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, the high and low reported sales prices of our ordinary shares were $8.20 and $4.55, respectively. Factors affecting the trading price of our ordinary shares include: · our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; · significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the steel industry; · customer demand for our products; · investor perceptions of the steel industry in general and our company in particular; · the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; · general economic conditions and trends; · major catastrophic events; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; · loss of external funding sources; · sales of our stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant shareholders; and · additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, from October 2008 until June 2009, securities markets in the United States, China and throughout the world experienced an historically large decline in share price. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Future sales or perceived sales of our ordinary shares could depress our stock price. Most of our ordinary shares held by our current shareholders are freely tradable. If the holders of these shares were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause shareholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to short the ordinary shares, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of our ordinary shares for sale to increase, our ordinary shares market price would likely further decline. 20 We do not intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares for the foreseeable future. Prior to our March 2009 merger with COAC, our operating subsidiary, Henan Green, declared and paid dividends of $51.9 million and $42.3 million in 2008, respectively, and declared and paid dividends of $16.1 million in 2007. We paid no dividends during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Notwithstanding Henan Green’s past history of making dividend payments, we intend to retain any future earnings to fund the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. We are a “foreign private issuer,” and have disclosure obligations that are different than those of U.S. domestic reporting companies, so you should not expect to receive the same information about us as a U.S. domestic reporting company may provide. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to certain of the requirements imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the SEC. For example, we are not required by the SEC or the federal securities laws to issue quarterly reports or file proxy statements with the SEC. We have also been allowed to file our annual report with the SEC within six months of our fiscal year end. Beginning with our annual report for our first fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2011, we must file annual reports with the SEC within four months of our fiscal year end. We are also not required to disclose certain detailed information regarding executive compensation that is required from U.S. domestic issuers. Further, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5. Since many of the disclosure obligations required of us as a foreign private issuer are different than those required by U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive all of the same types of information about us and at the same time as information is received from, or provided by, U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are liable for violations of the rules and regulations of the SEC which do apply to us as a foreign private issuer. Violations of these rules could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a BVI company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Virtually all of our assets and a substantial portion of our current business operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, almost all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts including judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, many of whom are not residents in the United States and whose assets are located in significant part outside of the United States. The courts of the BVI would recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States against the Company under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (a) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment, (b) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the BVI, (c) such judgment was not obtained by fraud, (d) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the BVI, (e) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the BVI and (f) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the BVI. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the BVI or the PRC, respectively, would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such BVI or PRC courts would entertain original actions brought in the courts of the BVI or the PRC, against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 21 Because we are incorporated under the laws of the BVI, it may be more difficult for our shareholders to protect their rights than it would be for a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association, by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004, and by the common law of the BVI. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under BVI law may not be as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in the United States or other jurisdictions. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. BVI law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in US jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the US. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most US jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation, subject to a limit of up to 50% of such assets. The ability of our board of directors to create new classes or series of shares and the rights attached by amending our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our ordinary shares at a premium over then current market prices. Thus, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. We do not currently expect to be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ending December 31, 2011. This expectation is based, in part, on our estimates of the fair market value of our assets (including goodwill). However, the PFIC test is an annual test that, as discussed below, depends upon the composition of our gross income for the year and the percentage, based on a quarterly average for the year, of our gross assets that constitute “passive” assets. Accordingly, it is not possible to determine whether we will not be classified as a PFIC for our tax year ending December 31, 2011 until after the year has ended. In addition, even if we are not classified as a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2011, because the PFIC test is annual, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any following tax year. A non-U.S. corporation will be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year if (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income for such year or (ii) at least 50% of the fair market value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during such year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The fair market value of our assets may be determined to a large extent by the market price of our ordinary shares. If we are treated as a PFIC for any tax year during which U.S. shareholders hold ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holders. See “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Our special U.S. counsel expresses no opinion with respect to our expectations contained in this paragraph. 