Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward Looking Statements Some information included in this report, other materials filed or to be filed with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us contain or 9 incorporate by reference certain statements (other than statements of historical fact) that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. When used herein, the words “assume,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “goal,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “could,” “believes,” “seeks,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects” or “targets” and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Where any forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe these assumptions or bases to be reasonable and to be made in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results, and the difference between assumed facts or bases and actual results could be material, depending on the circumstances. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable and such forward-looking statements are based upon the best data available at the date this report is filed with the SEC, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove correct. Factors that could cause our results to differ materially from the results discussed in these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: · the demand for and production of natural gas; · the level of sales of compressor units; · our ability to make cash distributions to holders of our common units at the minimum quarterly distribution rate under our cash distribution policy; · our dependency on significant customers, including PEMEX; · the levels of competition we encounter, including competition from TETRA; · economic and operating conditions that are outside our control, including changes in the global economic environment; · our ability to retain management and personnel; · complexities involving our growth in foreign countries; · budgetary constraints and ongoing violence in Mexico; · foreign currency and interest rate risks; · our dependency on particular suppliers; · restrictions and growth limitations as a result of our revolving credit facility; · risks related to our growth strategy; · environmental regulatory risks; · the impact of uninsured losses; · possible impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill; and · internal control risks. All such forward-looking statements in this document are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Certain Business Risks Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following significant risk factors that could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this report. 10 We depend on domestic and international demand for and production of natural gas, and a reduction in this demand or production could adversely affect the demand or the prices we charge for our services, which could cause our revenue and cash available for distribution to our unitholders to decrease. Our production enhancement services operations are significantly dependent upon the demand for, and production of, natural gas in the various domestic and international locations in which we operate. Natural gas production and consumption may be affected by, among other factors, natural gas prices, weather, demand for energy, and availability of alternative energy sources. Natural gas prices were volatile in 2011, with Henry Hub prices ranging from a high of $4.72 per British thermal units, or “MMBtu” in January 2011 to a low of $2.97 per MMBtu in December 2011. The Henry Hub price for natural gas as of December 31, 2011 was $2.98 per MMBtu and has dropped to as low as $2.23 in January 2012. Seasonality and the amount of natural gas in storage play a prominent role in natural gas prices. From time to time, in certain of our operating regions, wellhead prices are substantially lower than Henry Hub prices. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the demand for natural gas would, in all likelihood, depress the level of production activity and result in a decline in the demand for our production enhancement services, which would reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, natural gas production from newly developed shale plays continues to increase the amount of natural gas in storage, which tends to depress natural gas prices. While we have a significant number of customers who have retained our services through periods of high and low commodity prices, we generally experience less growth and more customer attrition during periods of significantly high or low commodity prices. In certain markets in which we operate, lower natural gas prices have resulted in increased pressure to lower the pricing for our services, which will have a negative impact on our operating cash flows. Historically, and most recently in late 2009 and early 2010, when natural gas prices declined, an increased number of our domestic customers terminated their service contracts with us. A sustained decrease in the price of natural gas may again cause customers to cease production of natural gas, or “shut-in” natural gas wells. If customers shut in wells due to a decline in natural gas prices, or any other reason, demand for our services may decline. We had significant revenues and operating cash flows during 2011 from the sale of compressor units, and this level of sales activity may not be sustainable in the future. A significant factor in our anticipated growth in revenues is expected revenues from the sales of compressor units. During 2011, we reported revenues of approximately $13.2 million from the sale of compressor units and parts, primarily related to compressor unit sales to two customers. The level of compressor unit sales is expected to decrease going forward. Unlike compression-based services, sales of compressor units are generally nonrecurring. The demand for our compressor units are also affected by several factors, including the price of natural gas and the level of capital spending by our customers. To the extent the level of these sales decreases in the future our revenues and cash flows will be negatively affected. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of any debt service and other contractual obligations, fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units at the minimum quarterly distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. To make our cash distributions at our minimum quarterly distribution rate of $0.3875 per common unit per quarter, or $1.55 per common unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $6.1 million per quarter, or approximately $24.3 million per year, based on the number of common units, subordinated units and the general partner interest outstanding as of March 20, 2012. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the minimum quarterly distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the risks described in this section and also upon: · our revenues; · our operating costs and expenses; · capital expenditures we make; · fluctuations in our working capital requirements; · the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and 11 · our debt service requirements and other liabilities. During 2011, costs of fuel, field labor, maintenance, repair and refurbishment increased. Many of those costs have been volatile and may continue to be volatile or increase in the future. To the extent our efforts to contain these costs are not successful; our generation of operating cash flows to fund our quarterly distribution will be negatively affected. We have five customers that collectively accounted for approximately 40.2% of our 2011 revenues. Our services are provided to these customers pursuant to short-term contracts, which typically are cancellable with 30 days’ notice. The loss of any of these significant customers would result in a decline in our revenue and cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our five most significant customers collectively accounted for approximately 40.2% of our 2011 revenues. Therefore, our loss of a single significant customer may have a greater effect on our financial results than it would on a company with a more diverse customer base. Our five largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2011, were PEMEX, BP, Santos, Devon Energy Corporation, and EXCO Resources. These five customers accounted for approximately 14.3%, 14.3%, 5.8%, 3.4% and 2.4% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. The loss of all or even a portion of the services we provide to these customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The majority of our business in Mexico is performed for PEMEX and, due to our dependence on PEMEX as our primary customer, any cutbacks by the Mexican Government on PEMEX’s annual spending budget could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The majority of our business in Mexico is performed for PEMEX. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, PEMEX accounted for approximately 14.3% and 11.7% of our revenues, respectively, and a substantial portion of our cash flows. No work or services are guaranteed to be ordered by PEMEX under our contracts with PEMEX. PEMEX is a decentralized public entity of the Mexican Government, and therefore the Mexican Government controls PEMEX, as well as its annual budget, which is approved by the Mexican Congress. The Mexican Government may cut spending in the future. These cuts could adversely affect PEMEX’s annual budget and, thus, its ability to engage us or compensate us for our services. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected. We face competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. The production enhancement services business is highly competitive. Primary competition for our production enhancement services business comes from various local and regional companies that utilize packages consisting of a screw compressor with a separate engine driver or a reciprocating compressor with a separate engine driver. These local and regional competitors tend to compete with us on the basis of price rather than equipment specifications. To a lesser extent, we face competition from large national and multinational companies with greater financial resources than ours. While these companies have traditionally focused on higher-horsepower natural gas gathering and transportation equipment and services and have represented limited competition to-date, one or more of these companies could elect to compete in the wellhead compression-based production enhancement services business segment. In addition, our competitors include plunger lift and other artificial lift service providers and companies engaged in leasing compressors and other equipment. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. Our competitors could substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services, develop more efficient production enhancement equipment or decrease the price at which they offer their services. In addition, our customers may elect to purchase their own production enhancement equipment in lieu of using our production enhancement services. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 12 Our future growth and success will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we cannot control. Our future growth and success will depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control. These factors include our ability to: · attract new customers; · maintain our existing customers and maintain or expand the level of services we provide to them; · recruit, train, and retain qualified field services and other personnel; · increase the scale of our compressor unit manufacturing operations; · consummate acquisitions on economic terms; and · obtain required financing for our future operations and expansion Failure in any of these areas could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. If we do not achieve our expected growth or market penetration, we may not be able to achieve our estimated results. Changes in the global economic environment could adversely affect our business. We believe that market demand for our services reached a cyclical low point during the beginning of 2010, largely due to the effects of the domestic and foreign economic downturn. This economic downturn led to a significant decrease in the industrial consumption of natural gas at that time, and, in turn, lower natural gas prices compared to those of previous years (decreasing from an average Henry Hub spot price of $4.37 per MMBtu, in 2010 to $2.84 per MMBtu in 2011). This in turn led to cost cutting by our customers and, consequently, lower demand for our services and lower compressor utilization rates. Although the overall global economy has largely recovered from the 2008 recession, significant economic uncertainty remains. If current economic conditions worsen, there may be constraints on oil and gas industry spending levels. Such a stagnation of economic activity would negatively affect both the demand for many of our services and the prices we charge for these services, which would negatively affect our revenues and future growth. During times when oil or natural gas prices are low, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Many of our customers finance their exploration and development activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The combination of a reduction of operating cash flow resulting from low commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ spending for our services. For example, our customers could seek to preserve capital by canceling our month-to-month services contracts or determining not to enter into any new services contracts, thereby reducing demand for our services. The reduced demand for our services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively and provide adequate production enhancement services to our customers may be adversely affected if our general partner loses its management or is unable to retain trained personnel. We rely primarily on the executive officers and directors of our general partner to manage our operations and make decisions on our behalf. Our ability to provide quality production enhancement services depends upon our general partner’s ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of trained personnel. The departure of any of our general partner’s executive officers could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We operate in an industry characterized by highly competitive labor markets and, similar to many of our competitors, our Predecessor has experienced high employee turnover in certain regions. It is possible that our labor expenses could increase if there is a shortage in the supply of skilled regional service supervisors and other service professionals. Our general partner may be unable to improve employee retention rates or maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary for us to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy without increasing labor expenses. Failure to do so could impair our ability to operate efficiently and to retain current customers and attract prospective customers, which could cause our business to suffer 13 materially. Additionally, increases in labor expenses may have an adverse impact on our operating results, and may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations in, and expansion of operations into, foreign countries exposes us to complex regulations and may present us with new obstacles to growth. We have significant operations in Mexico and Canada and a growing presence in certain countries in South America, Eastern Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. A portion of our expected future growth includes expansion throughout certain countries in these regions. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our operations in the countries in which we currently operate, and those countries in which we may operate in the future, could be adversely affected by: · government controls and actions, such as expropriation of assets and changes in legal and regulatory environments; · import and export license requirements; · political, social, or economic instability; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs and taxes; · restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and · the impact of anti-corruption laws. If we violate any licensing, tariff, customs or tax reporting requirements, significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties could be assessed on us. In addition, foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we cannot obtain them when we expect, our growth and profitability from international operations could be negatively affected. Under the recently enacted Ley de Petróleos Mexicanos (the “PEMEX Law”), PEMEX now has authority to contract through an auction process with third parties for the exploration, development, and production of hydrocarbons. Our existing contracts with PEMEX are two years in duration and, when these contracts with PEMEX expire, we may be required to participate in an open auction to renew them. Any failure by us to renew our existing contracts with PEMEX or renew them on favorable terms could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under the recently enacted PEMEX Law, PEMEX now has authority to contract through an auction process with third parties for the exploration, development, and production of hydrocarbons. The PEMEX Law permits three types of contracting: contracts resulting from open auctions or invitation-only auctions with at least three invitees, or direct contracting. To utilize an invitation-only auction or a direct contract, PEMEX must provide written justification as to why the specific circumstances of the proposed service contract require less than an open auction. Additionally, open auctions must conform with one of three selected bidder models: either all bidders must be Mexican entities, all bidders must be Mexican entities or foreign entities whose countries of origin are parties to free trade agreements with Mexico that include sections related to governmental procurement, or bidders may be of any national origin. PEMEX may only select the third option if PEMEX determines that either (i) the Mexican market cannot adequately meet the needs of the contract, (ii) the third option would be better for PEMEX in terms of price or quality, (iii) the second bidder model was attempted but was unsuccessful, or (iv) the contracts are financed by certain legally required types of foreign loans. In addition, under the PEMEX Law, there may be other qualifications that must be met by bidding service providers. Bidders must meet and maintain all required qualifications at the time of bidding and throughout the term of the contract. Our existing contracts with PEMEX are two years in duration and, when they expire, we may be required to participate in an open auction to renew them. Any failure by us to renew our existing contracts with PEMEX or renew them on favorable terms could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot predict what impact, if any, these new rules will have on our ability to renew our existing contracts with PEMEX or renew them on terms that are favorable to us. 14 Escalating security disruptions in regions of Mexico served by us could adversely affect our Mexican operations and, as a result, the levels of revenue and operating cash flow from our Mexican operations could be reduced. During the past two years, incidents of security disruptions throughout many regions of Mexico have increased. Drug related gang activity has grown in response to Mexico’s efforts to reduce and control drug trafficking within the country. Certain incidents of violence have occurred in regions served by us and have resulted in the interruption of our operations and these interruptions could continue or increase in the future. To the extent that such security disruptions continue or increase, our operations will continue to be affected, and the levels of revenue and operating cash flow from our Mexican operations could be reduced. We do not use financial instruments to minimize our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in fluctuations in our cash flows and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we have significant operations in Mexico and Canada and a growing presence in certain countries in South America, Eastern Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, a significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies. Because we do not use financial instruments to minimize our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates, we are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If a foreign currency weakened significantly, we would be required to convert more of that foreign currency to U.S. dollars to satisfy our obligations, which would cause us to have less cash available for distribution. A significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in an increase in our financing expenses and could materially affect our financial results under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). Because we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. Most of our billings under the contracts with PEMEX and other clients in Mexico are in U.S. dollars; however a large portion of our expenses and costs under those contracts are incurred in Mexican pesos. In addition, future contract awards with PEMEX may require us to bill a larger portion of our revenues in Mexican pesos, which would expose us to additional foreign currency exchange rate risks. As a result of the above, we are exposed to fluctuations in the value of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. A material increase in the value of the Mexican peso relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely affect our cash flows and net income. In addition, for our significant operations in Canada, where the local currency is the functional currency under U.S. GAAP, all U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. This revaluation may cause us to report significant foreign currency exchange gains and losses in certain periods. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to compressor unit component shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We manufacture most of our compressor units. We obtain some of the components used in our compressor units from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. We do not have long-term contracts with these sources and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, since any increase in component prices for compressor units manufactured by us could decrease our margins, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Restrictions in the revolving credit facility that we entered into upon the closing of our initial public offering could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our units. Upon the closing of the offering, we entered into a new revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $20.0 million, less $3.0 million that is required to be set aside as a reserve. We are dependent 15 upon the earnings and cash flow generated by our operations to meet our debt service obligations. Our payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce cash available for distribution on our units. In addition, the operating and financial restrictions and covenants contained in the revolving credit facility and any other future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility to fund distributions (if we elected to do so). For example, the revolving credit facility could restrict our ability to, among others: · incur additional debt or issue guarantees; · incur or permit certain liens to exist; · make negative pledges; · pay dividends or make other distributions; · make certain loans, investments, acquisitions or other restricted payments; · modify certain material agreements; · dispose of assets outside the ordinary course of business, including the issuance and sale of capital stock of our subsidiaries; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into swap agreements; · engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates; and · merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. The revolving credit facility also restricts our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: · failure to pay principal, interest or any other amount when due; · breach of the representations or warranties in the revolving credit facility; · failure to comply with the covenants in the revolving credit facility; · cross-default to other indebtedness; · bankruptcy or insolvency; · certain Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, events; · material court judgments ordered against us; and · a change of control. Furthermore, the revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain an interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.5 to 1.0, calculated on a quarterly basis for the trailing twelve month period whenever availability is less than $5 million. The revolving credit facility provides that we can make distributions to holders of our common units, but only if there is no default or event of default under the facility. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the revolving credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we were unable to comply with any such covenant restrictions in any quarter, our ability to make distributions to unitholders would be curtailed. A failure to comply with the provisions of the revolving credit facility could result in an event of default. Upon a default, unless waived, the lender under the revolving credit facility would have all remedies available to a secured lender, and could elect to terminate its commitments, cease making further loans, cause its loans to become due and payable in full, institute foreclosure proceedings against our or our subsidiaries’ assets, and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. 16 Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. Although the revolving credit facility is undrawn as of March 21, 2012, we are able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures (including acquisitions) or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · covenants contained in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; · we will need a portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, distributions to unitholders and future business opportunities; · we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Increases in our indebtedness would increase our total interest expense, which would in turn reduce our forecasted cash available for distribution. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. We may be unable to grow successfully through future acquisitions or to manage successfully future growth, and we may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we may acquire, which may impact our operations and limit our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders. From time to time we may choose to make business acquisitions to pursue market opportunities, increase our existing capabilities and expand into new areas of operations. We have not actively pursued acquisitions previously, and in the future we may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire identified targets. In addition, we may not be successful in integrating any future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of attention from our general partner’s personnel. Even if we are successful in integrating future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expect from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Furthermore, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making acquisitions. Our inability to make acquisitions, or to integrate successfully future acquisitions into our existing operations, may impact our operations and limit our ability to increase distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to grow in the future is dependent on our ability to access external expansion capital. We distribute all of our available cash after paying expenses and establishing prudent operating reserves to our unitholders. As of December 31, 2011, our total cash balance was $17.5 million. When our cash balances have been depleted, we expect that we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund expansion capital expenditures. To the extent we are unable to efficiently finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, we may not grow as quickly as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional partnership units in connection with other expansion capital expenditures, the payment of 17 distributions on those additional partnership units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per common unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our revolving credit agreement on our ability to issue additional partnership units, including partnership units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of borrowings or other debt by us to finance our growth strategy would result in interest expense, which in turn would affect the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. The credit and risk profile of TETRA could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The credit and business risk profile of TETRA could adversely affect our ability to incur indebtedness in the future or obtain a credit rating, as credit rating agencies may consider the leverage and credit profile of TETRA and its affiliates in assigning a rating because of their control of us, their performance of administrative functions for us, our close operational links and our contractual relationships. Furthermore, the trading price of our common units may be adversely affected by financial or operational difficulties or excessive debt levels at TETRA. In addition, if TETRA’s ownership of our general partner is pledged to TETRA’s lenders, then there is a risk that control over our general partner could be transferred to TETRA’s lenders in the event of a default. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of our contracts with our customers, which are generally cancellable on 30 days’ notice, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We generally provide production enhancement services to our customers under “evergreen” contracts that are cancellable on thirty days’ notice. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts on favorable terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We are subject to environmental regulation, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulatory standards, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict and joint and several liability for environmental contamination, rendering us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages resulting from our ownership of property or conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous wastes may have been disposed on wellhead sites used by us to provide production enhancement services or to store inactive GasJack® units or on or under other locations where wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also adversely affect oil and natural gas exploration and production, which in turn could have an adverse effect on us. 18 Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt production and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA” published its final findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or “GHGs” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, or “CAA.” Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA recently adopted two sets of rules that became effective January 2, 2011 that regulate GHG emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011, of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain oil and gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Further, Congress has considered and almost one-half of the states have adopted legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of GHGs from a wide range of sources. Any such legislation could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce and, in turn, demand for our production enhancement services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. TETRA and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement between TETRA and us prohibits TETRA and its affiliates from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, TETRA and its affiliates may acquire compression-based services business or assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of that business or those assets. TETRA has significantly greater financial resources than we do, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with TETRA with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisitions candidates. As a result, competition from TETRA could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Our operations are subject to inherent risks such as equipment defects, malfunction and failures, and natural disasters that can result in uncontrolled flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damages. Our insurance may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we do not maintain business interruption insurance. Please read “Health, Safety, and Environmental Affairs Regulations” for a description of how we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of human health and environment. 19 An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility will bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, such variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make cash distributions. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. An impairment of goodwill could reduce our earnings. In connection with the offering, our Predecessor contributed approximately $72.2 million of goodwill to us. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Any event that causes a further reduction in demand for our services could result in a reduction of our estimates of future cash flows and growth rates in our business. These events could cause us to record impairments of goodwill. If we determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill is impaired, we will be required to take an immediate charge to earnings with a corresponding reduction of partners’ equity and increase in balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. Prior to the offering, we were not required to file separate reports with the SEC. Upon the completion of the offering, we became subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the “Exchange Act.” We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, but our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as “Section 404.” For example, Section 404 requires us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm may be required to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. The employees conducting our operations in Mexico are party to collective labor agreements and a prolonged work stoppage of our operations in Mexico could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows and net income. The personnel conducting our operations in Mexico are subject to eleven collective labor agreements, one of which expires on December 31, 2012. The ten remaining collective labor agreements consist of “evergreen” contracts that have no expiration date, and whose terms remain in full force and effect from year to year, unless the parties agree to negotiate new terms. The employees subject to these “evergreen” agreements may, however, request a renegotiation of their employee compensation terms on an annual basis 20 or a renegotiation of the entire agreement on a biannual basis, although we are not required to honor any such request. We have not experienced work stoppages in the past but cannot guarantee that we will not experience work stoppages in the future. A prolonged work stoppage could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows and net income. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter, which could limit our ability to grow. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter to our unitholders, which began following the quarter ending June 30, 2011. As a result, our general partner relies primarily upon the initial offering proceeds and external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our expansion capital expenditures. To the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, this requirement significantly impairs our ability to grow. In addition, also as a result of this requirement, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units will decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding unit. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, would reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. TETRA controls us and our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. TETRA has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders’ detriment. TETRA owns and controls us and our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors are directors of TETRA and Compressco, a wholly owned subsidiary of TETRA that owns our general partner. In addition, a majority of our general partner’s executive officers are also officers of Compressco. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between TETRA and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of TETRA and its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires TETRA or Compressco to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Compressco’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of TETRA, Compressco’s sole shareholder, which may be contrary to our interests; · our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and TETRA, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services, acquisitions and non-competition provisions; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including TETRA and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties to our unitholders and us, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; · our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayment of indebtedness and issuances of additional partnership interests, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our common unitholders; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus, and this determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders, which, in turn, may affect the ability of the subordinated units to convert; 21 · our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; · our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $15 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or the incentive distribution rights; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and TETRA will determine the allocation of shared overhead expenses; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; · our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 90% of the common units; · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and · our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations. Our cash distribution policy, as expressed in our partnership agreement, may not be modified or repealed in a manner materially adverse to our unitholders without a vote of the holders of a majority of our common units. TETRA’s indirect control of our general partner and of over a majority of our common units would also allow TETRA to modify or repeal our cash distribution policy in a manner materially adverse to our unitholders. Our reliance on TETRA for certain general and administrative support services and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement entered into between TETRA, our general partner and us, TETRA provides to us certain general and administrative services, including, without limitation, legal, accounting, treasury, insurance administration and claims processing and risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit and tax services. Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon TETRA’s performance of these services. Our reliance on TETRA could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, TETRA will receive reimbursement for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Our general partner is also entitled to significant reimbursement for expenses it incurs on our behalf, including reimbursement for the cost of its employees who perform services for us. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. 22 Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to consider any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the partnership units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of our unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that our general partner and its executive officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and will retain its then-current general partner interest. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will equal the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such reset. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it 23 receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner will be chosen by its sole shareholder, Compressco, which, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of and controlled by TETRA. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Due to these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. Our unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of March 20, 2012, TETRA, which indirectly owns our general partner, owns 82.6% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. In addition, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and no units held by the holders of the subordinated units or their affiliates are voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. We can issue an unlimited number of partnership units in the future, including units that are senior in right of distributions, liquidation and voting to the common units, without the approval of our unitholders, and our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or the holders of our common units, each of which would dilute our unitholders’ existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional partnership units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of partnership units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation or voting. Our general partner also has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and will retain its then-current general partner interest. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our previously existing unitholders’ proportionate ownership interests in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; · because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; 24 · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Compressco, the owner of our general partner, from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units, other than our general partner and its affiliates, including TETRA. Accordingly, such unitholders’ voting rights may be limited. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any partnership units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of partnership units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, including TETRA, its transferees and persons who acquired such partnership units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of March 20, 2012 our general partner and its affiliates hold an aggregate of 6,427,257 common units and 6,273,970 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis at the end of the subordination period. Sales by affiliates of our general partner (including TETRA) or other holders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets following this offering, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Under our agreement, our general partner and its affiliates have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of common units. As of March 20, 2012, our general partner and its affiliates own an aggregate of 82.6% of our common and subordinated units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of units (other than upon the conversion of the subordinated units), our general partner and its affiliates will own 82.6% of our common units. Our unitholders’ liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we 25 do business. Our unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if: · a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or · our unitholders’ right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, our unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners because of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement generally may not be amended during the subordination period without the approval of our public common unitholders. However, our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by affiliates of TETRA) after the subordination period has ended. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuance of units (other than upon conversion of the subordinated units) TETRA and its affiliates will own an aggregate of 82.6% of our common units. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. Prior to the offering, we had no history operating as a publicly traded company. As a publicly traded company, we incur additional selling, general and administrative and other expenses compared to our Predecessor. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ), has required changes in corporate governance practices of publicly traded companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements that provide additional protection to stockholders of other public companies. Companies listed on the NASDAQ are required to meet the high standards of corporate governance, as set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules. These requirements generally do not apply to limited partnerships or to a “controlled company,” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules. We are a limited partnership and will be a “controlled company,” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules, and, as a result, we will rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other public companies. 26 Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we should be treated as a corporation, a change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on all of our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay additional state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. We have a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is subject to corporate-level income taxes. We conduct a portion of our operations through a subsidiary that is organized as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may elect to conduct additional operations through this corporate subsidiary in the future. This corporate subsidiary is subject to U.S. corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that this corporation has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. Current law may change to cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. Specifically, the present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although the considered legislation would not have appeared to affect our treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject 27 partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax each year at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Although we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax other than with respect to our operating U.S. subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, certain of our foreign operations are subject to certain non-U.S. taxes. If a taxing authority were to successfully assert that we have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the taxes to which we are subject, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be further reduced. Approximately 27.5% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 was generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions, primarily Mexico, Canada, and Argentina. This percentage of non-U.S. revenues is expected to increase in the future, as we seek to grow our operations in these countries and expand our operations into additional non-U.S. locations. Our non-U.S. operations and subsidiaries are subject to income, withholding and other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which they are organized or from which they receive income, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing tax authorities, such as whether withholding taxes will be reduced by the application of certain tax treaties. Upon review of these positions the applicable authorities may not agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax being imposed on us, reducing the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in higher than anticipated tax being imposed in jurisdictions in which we are organized or from which we receive income and further reduce the cash available for distribution. Although these taxes may be properly characterized as foreign income taxes, our unitholders may not be able to credit them against the liability for U.S. federal income taxes on the unitholders’ share of our earnings. In addition, our operations in countries in which we operate now or in the future may involve risks associated with the legal structure used, and the taxation on assets transferred into a particular country. Tax laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. Any such changes may result in additional taxes above the amounts we currently anticipate and further reduce our cash available for distribution to you. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Unitholders’ share of our income will be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to the unitholder, which may require the payment of U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder’s share of our taxable income even if the unitholder 28 receives no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in that common unit, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholders receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, it should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Due to a number of factors, including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change our allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes 29 as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in the Partnership’s capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited partnership, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a technical termination occurred. Unitholders will likely be subject to non-U.S., state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including non-U.S., state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file non-U.S., state and local income tax returns and pay non-U.S., state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. In the United States, as of March 21, 2012, we own assets and conduct business in Arkansas, California, 30 Colorado, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, North Dakota Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming. Each of these states, other than Texas and Wyoming, currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. In addition, most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own or control assets or conduct business in additional jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. Unitholders may be subject to tax in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions, including Mexico, Canada, and Argentina, as a result of owning our common units if, under the laws of any such country, we are considered to be carrying on business there. If unitholders are subject to tax in any such country, they may be required to file a tax return with, and pay taxes to, that country based on their allocable share of our income. We may be required to reduce distributions to unitholders on account of any withholding obligations imposed upon us by that country in respect of such allocation to the unitholders. In addition, the United States may not allow a tax credit for any foreign income taxes that unitholders directly or indirectly incur. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns and non-U.S. tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 