RISK FACTORS Factors Relating to Argentina Economic and political instability in Argentina has affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to economic and political conditions in Argentina, considering that as of December 31, 2013, approximately 77% of our total assets, 99% of our sales, 90% of our combined crude oil and gas production and 86% of our proved oil and gas reserves were located in Argentina. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. As a consequence, our business and operations have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by economic and political developments and other material events affecting the Argentine economy, such as: inflation; price controls; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; currency devaluation; governmental policies regarding spending and investment, and other initiatives increasing government involvement with economic activity; civil unrest; and local insecurity concerns. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. Among other consequences, the crisis resulted in Argentina defaulting on its foreign debt obligations, introducing emergency measures and numerous changes in economic policies that affected utilities and many other sectors of the economy, and suffering a significant real devaluation of the peso, which in turn caused numerous Argentine private sector debtors with foreign currency exposure to default on their outstanding debt. Following that crisis, Argentina has substantially increased its real Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”). During 2008 and 2009, however, the Argentine economy suffered a slowdown attributed to local and external factors, including an extended drought affecting agricultural activities, and the effects of the global economic crisis. Real GDP growth recovered in 2010 and 2011, with GDP increasing 8.9% in 2011, according to data published by the INDEC, which is the only institution in Argentina with the statutory power to produce official nationwide statistics. In 2012, however, GDP growth slowed to 1.9% according to data published by the INDEC, before recovering to approximately 3% in 2013. Argentina has confronted inflationary pressures since 2007, evidenced by significantly higher fuel, energy and food prices, among other indicators. According to inflation data published by the INDEC, from 2009 to 2013, the Argentine consumer price index increased 7.7%, 10.9%, 9.5%, 10.8% and 10.9%, respectively; and the wholesale price index increased 10.3%, 14.6%, 12.7%, 13.1% and 14.7%, respectively. However, the INDEC has since 2007 experienced a process of institutional and methodological reforms that have given rise to controversy with respect to the reliability of the information that it produces. Reports published by the IMF state that their staff uses alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, which have shown inflation rates considerably higher than those published by the INDEC since 2007. The IMF has also issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with its breach of its related obligations to the IMF under the Articles of Agreement for failing to make sufficient progress in adopting remedial measures to address the quality of official data, including inflation and GDP data. On February 13, 2014, the INDEC released a new inflation index that measures prices on goods across the country and replaces the previous index that only measured inflation in the urban sprawl of the City of Buenos Aires. Under the new methodology, the January, February and March 2014 consumer price index rose 3.7%, 3.4% and 2.6%, respectively. The IMF has reacted cautiously to the new index, declaring that it will review Argentina’s reports on progress in revising its inflation and gross domestic product statistics later in 2014. While controversy remains as to the reliability of the official data, since 2007 inflation in Argentina has contributed to a material increase in our costs of operation, in particular labor costs, and negatively impacted our results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that inflation rates will not escalate in the future, or of what effects the measures adopted or that may be adopted in the future by the Argentine government to control inflation may have. See “—Government intervention in the Argentine economy could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.” We cannot provide any assurance that inflation, and/or other future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, over which we have no control, will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay our debts at maturity or dividends. 9 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the value of the peso could adversely affect the Argentine economy, our results of operations or financial condition. Fluctuations in the value of the peso may also adversely affect the Argentine economy, our financial condition and results of operations. Since January 2002, the peso has fluctuated significantly in value. If the peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could also have adverse consequences for our business. A substantial increase in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy since it may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account balance and the balance of payments. In January 2014, the peso lost approximately 24% of its value with respect to the U.S. Dollar. We are unable to predict the future value of the peso against the U.S. dollar and how any fluctuations may affect the demand for our products and services or the costs that we incur in conducting our operations. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rates.” In addition, the Argentine government has also adopted numerous measures to control directly or indirectly foreign trade and foreign exchange markets. Since 2011, the Argentine government has adopted increasingly stringent exchange controls such as requiring an authorization of tax authorities to access the foreign currency exchange market. Exchange control regulations may prevent or limit us from offsetting the risk derived from our exposure to the U.S. dollar and, if so, we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our financial condition and results of operations. Government intervention in the Argentine economy could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the political and economic factors described above, our business and operations have been, and could in the future be, affected by actions taken by the Argentine government through the implementation of new or changed laws and regulations, such as: nationalizations, expropriations or forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; exchange and/or transfer restrictions; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases, changes in the interpretation or application of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; cancellation of contract rights; and delays or denials of governmental approvals. During recent years, the Argentine government has increased its direct intervention in the economy, including through the implementation of expropriation and nationalization measures, price controls and exchange controls. In 2008, the Argentine government absorbed and replaced the former private pension system for a public “pay as you go” pension system As a result, all resources administered by the private pension funds, including significant equity interests in a wide range of listed companies, were transferred to a separate fund (Fondo de Garantía de Sustentabilidad, or the “FGS”) to be administered by the National Social Security Administration (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, or the “ANSES”). The dissolution of the private pension funds and the transfer of their financial assets to the FGS have had important repercussions on the financing of private sector companies. Debt and equity instruments which previously could be placed with pension fund administrators are now entirely subject to the discretion of the ANSES. Since acquiring equity interests in privately owned companies through the process of replacing the pension system, the ANSES has been entitled to designate government representatives to the boards of directors of those entities. Pursuant to Decree No. 1,278/12, issued by the Executive Branch on July 25, 2012, the ANSES representatives must report directly to the Ministry of Economy and are subject to a mandatory information-sharing regime, under which, among other obligations, they must immediately inform the Ministry of Economy of the agenda for each board of directors meeting and provide related documentation. In April 2012, the Argentine government decreed the removal of directors and senior officers of YPF S.A. (“YPF”), the country’s largest oil and gas company, which was controlled by the Spanish group Repsol, and submitted a bill to the Argentine Congress to expropriate shares held by Repsol representing 51% of the shares of YPF. The Argentine Congress approved the bill in May 2012 through the passage of Law No. 26,741, which declared hydrocarbons self-sufficiency, production, industrialization, transportation and marketing to be activities of public interest and fundamental policies of Argentina, and empowered the Argentine government to adopt any measures necessary to achieve the objectives set forth in that law. In February 2014, the Argentine government and Repsol announced that they had reach agreement on the terms of the compensation payable to Repsol for the expropriation of the YPF shares. Such compensation totals US$ 5 billion, payable by delivery Argentine sovereign bonds with various maturities. See “—Factors Relating to Our Business—The Argentine government and provincial governments have intervened in the oil and gas industry in the past, and are likely to continue to intervene.” Our business and operations in Argentina may also be adversely affected by measures adopted by the Argentine government to address inflation. For example, increases in the costs of services and labor could negatively affect our results of operations if we are not permitted to pass those costs along to customers in the tariffs which we charge due to the imposition of price controls. See “—Factors Relating to Our Business—Limitations on local pricing in Argentina may adversely affect our results of operations.” In addition, on October 26, 2011 the Argentine government issued Decree No. 1,722/11, providing that all foreign currency revenues obtained from exports made by mining and oil and gas companies must be repatriated and sold within the local foreign exchange market, which is the general regime applicable to revenues generated by Argentine exports. Prior to the issuance of this decree, we were allowed to retain overseas up to 70% of the proceeds of certain exports. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Controls” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Description of Indebtedness.” It is widely reported by private economists that expropriations, price controls, exchange controls and other direct involvement by the Argentine government in the economy have had an adverse impact on the level of investment in Argentina, the access of Argentine companies to the international capital markets and Argentina’s commercial and diplomatic relations with other countries. The level of government intervention in the economy may continue or increase, which may adversely affect Argentina’s economy and, in turn, our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents The Argentine economy can be adversely affected by economic developments in other markets and by more general “contagion” effects, which could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to external shocks that could be caused by adverse developments affecting its principal trading partners. A significant decline in the economic growth of any of Argentina’s major trading partners could have a material adverse impact on Argentina’s balance of trade and adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth. For example, recent economic slowdowns, especially in Argentina’s major trading partners, led to declines in Argentine exports in 2012. Declining demand for Argentine exports, or a decline in the international market prices for those products, could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. In addition, financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced by economic and market conditions in other markets worldwide. For example, the recent challenges faced in 2011 and 2012 by the European Union to stabilize certain of its member economies had international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets, which hindered economies worldwide and negatively affected the Argentine economy, and in turn, our business and results of operations. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perceptions of events occurring in other countries have in the past substantially affected, and may continue to substantially affect, capital flows into and investments in securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. International investors’ reactions to events occurring in one market sometimes demonstrate a “contagion” effect in which an entire region or class of investment is disfavored by international investors, Argentina could be adversely affected by negative economic or financial developments in other countries, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Argentine financial system and securities markets will not be adversely affected by events in developed countries’ economies or events in other emerging markets. A slowdown in economic activity in Argentina would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A lack of financing for Argentine companies, whether due to market forces or government regulation, may negatively impact our financial condition or cash flows. The prospects for Argentine companies of accessing financial markets might be limited in terms of the amount of financing available, and the conditions and cost of such financing. Following the default on its external debt in 2001, the Argentine government sought to restructure its outstanding debt by offering holders of the defaulted bonds two opportunities to exchange them for newly issued debt securities, in 2005 and again in 2010. Holders of approximately 93% of Argentina’s defaulted debt participated in the exchanges. Nonetheless, a number of bondholders who held out from the exchange offers have initiated legal actions against the Argentine government. Since late 2012, rulings favorable to those bondholders in pending cases have deepened doubts about Argentina’s ability to service its debt under the terms of foreign judgments, and have exacerbated investors’ uncertainties as well as increased sovereign risk. In 2013, Argentine Congress approved a law that enables the government to take the necessary measures to complete the debt restructuring process, on terms that cannot overpass those of the previous debt exchanges. A final, unappealable judgment against Argentina in these pending cases could lead to a default on its public debt and further reduce the sources of funding and investment capital that are available to Argentina, which could limit the Argentine government’s ability to adopt measures to promote economic growth. On August 23, 2013 the United States Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of the bondholders. On November 18, 2013, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals denied Argentina’s petition for rehearing. On February 18, 2014, Argentina filed a petition asking the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals denying Argentina’s petition for a rehearing. In addition, the foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies, including public utilities and certain bondholders that did not participate in the exchange offers described above, have filed claims in excess of U.S.$15 billion with the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (the “ICSID”), alleging that the emergency measures adopted by the Argentine government in 2002 do not meet the just and equal treatment requirements of several bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. While certain plaintiffs have prevailed against Argentina in their ICSID proceedings, including most recently British Gas whose US$ 185 million award was upheld by the United States Supreme Court, Argentina has not yet honored such awards. However, in October 2013, Argentina announced its willingness to put an end to certain of such claims by offering Argentine sovereign bonds in exchange for a waiver from such plaintiffs of any rights to further litigation. The developments described above, the global economic crisis that started in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the resulting international stock market crash and the insolvency of major financial institutions toward the end of 2008, have generally limited the ability of Argentine companies to access international financial markets as they had in the past or made such access significantly more costly for Argentine issuers. Between June 2009 and 2011, a greater number of Argentine companies gained access to the international capital markets, albeit at conditions more onerous than competitors based in other countries in the region. Since 2012, with few exceptions, Argentine companies have had little access to such markets. See “—Government intervention in the Argentine economy could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.” 11 Table of Contents Argentina’s past default and its ongoing litigation with holdout creditors, and economic policy measures adopted by the Argentine government, may continue to prevent Argentine companies such as us from accessing the international capital markets readily or render the financial conditions of such access significantly more onerous than for companies in other countries in the region, and may therefore negatively impact our financial condition or cash flows. Recently approved Argentine judicial reform, as well as challenges thereto, have generated uncertainty with respect to future administrative and judicial proceedings involving the Argentine government. Law No. 26,854, which regulates injunctions in cases in which the Argentine government is a party or has intervened, was promulgated on April 30, 2013 as part of a judicial reform bill approved by the Argentine Congress. Among the principal changes proposed in the judicial reform bill are a time limitation on injunctions imposed in proceedings brought against the Argentine government and the creation of three new chambers of Casación (which hear appeals) prior to the intervention of the Supreme Court of Justice. In addition, Law No. 26,855, which became effective on May 27, 2013, modified the structure and functions of the Argentine Consejo de la Magistratura (judicial council), which is in charge of appointing judges, of presenting charges against them, and of suspending or deposing them. However, several legal challenges have been brought against these laws, leading to rulings which for the time being have prevented them from entering into full effect. Although it is not possible to predict the degree to which the reforms, if and when the same become effective, might affect future administrative and/or judicial proceedings, potential future claims by us against the Argentine government could be affected by these new laws. Factors Relating to Our Business Substantial or extended declines and volatility in the prices of crude oil, oil products and natural gas may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of crude oil, oil products and natural gas. Factors affecting international prices for crude oil and related oil products include: political developments in crude oil producing regions, particularly the Middle East; the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other crude oil producing nations to set and maintain crude oil production levels and prices; global and regional supply and demand for crude oil; competition from other energy sources; domestic and foreign government regulations; weather conditions; and global conflicts or acts of terrorism. We have no control over these factors. Changes in crude oil prices generally result in changes in prices for related products. International oil prices have fluctuated widely over the last ten years. Substantial or extended declines in international prices of crude oil and related oil products may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the value of our proved reserves. In addition, significant decreases in the prices of crude oil and related oil products may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserves estimates in the future. Argentine oil and gas production concessions and exploration permits are subject to certain conditions and may not be renewed or could be revoked. Law No. 17,319 (the “Hydrocarbons Law”) provides for oil and gas concessions to remain in effect for 25 years as from the date of their award, and further provides for the concession term to be extended for up to 10 additional years, subject to terms and conditions approved by the grantor at the time of the extension. The authority to extend the terms of current and new permits, concessions and contracts has been vested with the government of the province in which the relevant area is located (and the Argentine government in respect of offshore areas beyond 12 nautical miles). In order to be eligible for the extension, any concessionaire and permit holder must have complied with its obligations under the Hydrocarbons Law and the terms of the particular concession or permit, including evidence of payment of taxes and royalties, the supply of the necessary technology, equipment and labor force and compliance with various environmental, investment and development obligations. Under the Hydrocarbons Law, non-compliance with these obligations and standards may also result in the imposition of fines and, in the case of material breaches, following the expiration of applicable cure periods, the revocation of the concession or permit. We cannot provide assurances that concessions that have not yet been renewed will be extended or that additional investment, royalty payment or other requirements will not be imposed on us in order to obtain extensions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Statistical Information Relating to Oil and Gas Production.” 12 Table of Contents Our crude oil and natural gas reserves estimates involve some degree of uncertainty which could adversely affect our ability to generate income. Our oil and gas proved reserves are estimated using geological and engineering data to determine with reasonable certainty whether the crude oil or natural gas in known reservoirs is recoverable under existing economic and operating conditions. The accuracy of proved reserve estimates depends on a number of factors, assumptions and variables, some of which are beyond our control. Factors susceptible to our control include drilling, testing and production after the date of the estimates, which may require substantial revisions to reserves estimates; the quality of available geological, technical and economic data used by us and our interpretation thereof; the production performance of our reservoirs and our recovery rates, both of which depend in significant part on available technologies as well as our ability to implement such technologies and the relevant know-how; the selection of third parties with which we enter into business; and the accuracy of our estimates of initial hydrocarbons in place, which may prove to be incorrect or require substantial revisions. Factors mainly beyond our control include changes in prevailing oil and natural gas prices, which could have an effect on the quantities of our proved reserves (since the estimates of reserves are calculated under existing economic conditions when such estimates are made); changes in the prevailing tax rules, other government regulations and contractual conditions after the date estimates are made (which could make reserves no longer economically viable to exploit); and certain actions of third parties, including the operators of fields in which we have an interest. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Reserves.” As a result of the foregoing, measures of reserves are subject to revision. Any downward revision in our estimated quantities of proved reserves could adversely impact our financial results by leading to increased depreciation, depletion and amortization charges and/or impairment charges, which would reduce earnings and shareholders’ equity. Oil and gas activities are subject to significant economic, environmental and operational risks. Oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to particular economic and industry-specific operational risks, some of which are beyond our control, such as production, equipment and transportation risks, as well as natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those relating to the physical characteristics of onshore and offshore oil or natural gas fields. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled due to bad weather conditions, mechanical difficulties, shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment, compliance with governmental requirements, fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. If these risks materialize, we may suffer substantial operational losses and disruptions to our operations. Drilling may be unprofitable, not only with respect to dry wells, but also with respect to wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs are taken into account. We may not be able to replace our oil and gas reserves and this may have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have experienced a decline in reserves and production (see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Reserves—Internal Control over Proved Reserves”). The possibility of replacing our crude oil and gas reserves in the future is dependent on our ability to access new reserves, both through successful exploration and reserve acquisitions. We consider exploration, which carries inherent risks and uncertainties, to be our main vehicle for future growth and reserves replacement. Without successful exploration activities or reserve acquisitions, our proved reserves would decline as our oil and gas production would be forced to rely on our current portfolio of assets. We cannot guarantee that our exploration, development and acquisition activities will allow us to offset the decline of our reserves. If we are not able to successfully find, develop or acquire sufficient additional reserves, our reserves and therefore our production may continue to decline and, consequently, this may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. The Argentine government and provincial governments have intervened in the oil and gas industry in the past, and are likely to continue to intervene. The Argentine government has historically exercised significant influence over the economy, including the energy sector, and companies such as us which operate in that sector have done so in a heavily regulated environment, aimed primarily at ensuring the satisfaction of domestic demand. To address the Argentine crisis of 2001 and 2002, the Argentine Congress enacted the Public Emergency Law and other emergency regulations, some of which remain in effect to date. Some of these regulations introduced a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the oil and gas industry in Argentina, and to other industries in which the Company’s associates are active, such as the electricity industry. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Public Emergency Law is still in effect. In addition, the Argentine government continues to introduce material changes to the regulatory regime applicable to the oil and gas industry, such as modifications to the Petróleo Plus (“Oil Plus”) program, the revocation of the Refinación Plus (“Refining Plus”) program, and the obligation to repatriate and sell in the local market 100% of the foreign currency revenues obtained from oil and gas exports. 13 Table of Contents On April 17, 2012, the Argentine government submitted a bill to the Argentine Congress calling for the expropriation of 51% of the shares of YPF owned by Repsol YPF S.A. (Spain). Effective May 7, 2012, the Argentine Congress enacted Law No. 26,741, sanctioning the expropriation of 51% of YPF’s Class D shares, out of the shares then held by Repsol YPF S.A. (Spain), and 51% of Repsol YPF GAS S.A., represented by 60% of its Class A shares then held by Repsol Butano S.A. (Spain). Also, Law No. 26.741 defines the hydrocarbon activities (including the exploitation, industrialization, transportation and commercialization thereof) in the territory of Argentina as a “national public interest”. On July 27, 2012, Decree No. 1,277/12 regulated various aspects of Law No. 26,741, specifically it (a) abrogated the sections of Decrees No. 1,055/89, 1,212/89 and 1,589/89 (the “Deregulation Decrees”) that established the right to freely market the hydrocarbon production in the domestic and external market, and the exemption from export withholdings, (b) created a Commission of Planning and Strategic Coordination of the National Hydrocarbon Investments Plan (the “Commission”), in charge of executing a “National Hydrocarbon Investments Plan”, (c) established the obligation for hydrocarbon companies to submit their technical, production and economic data to the Commission, as well as their investment plans, and (d) granted broad powers to the Commission with the aim of monitoring the investment plans and ensuring reasonable commercial prices in the domestic market. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of our Business”. Similarly, in 2012 the governors of ten hydrocarbon-producing Argentine provinces signed the Acuerdo Federal de Hidrocarburos (Federal Hydrocarbons Accord), including among its principal objectives establishing self-sufficiency in oil and gas supplies as a state policy. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government or provincial governments with respect to the oil and gas industry will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Limits on exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations. In recent periods, the Argentine government has introduced a series of measures limiting exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products, which have prevented us from profiting from higher prices of these commodities in the international markets, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. In April 2004, to facilitate the recovery of natural gas prices, the Secretariat of Energy (“SE”) entered into an agreement with natural gas producers, requiring them to sell a specified amount of gas in the local regulated market. During 2006, the SE required producers to redirect gas earmarked for export to supply local thermal power plants and gas distribution companies. In January 2007, the SE confirmed that the ability to export hydrocarbons would be subject to the satisfaction of domestic demand and that export would have to be authorized on a case-by-case basis by the SE. These measures prevented us from benefiting from higher margins in the international markets. In 2007, upon the expiration of the aforementioned agreement, the Argentine government and producers signed a new agreement effective until 2011 aimed at securing the domestic supply of gas. On January 5, 2012, the SE decided to extend the temporary allocation rules and other criteria established by Resolution No. 599/2007 to set obligations for the timely supply of natural gas, as established under the agreement with natural gas producers in effect from 2007 through 2011. Under these agreements, temporary limits on certain natural gas exports have been imposed to avoid a crisis in the local supply of natural gas, depriving us of higher margins in the international markets. Pursuant to SE Resolution No. 1,679/04, since December 2004, producers must obtain the approval of the Argentine government prior to exporting crude oil or diesel. To obtain this approval, exporters must demonstrate that they have either satisfied local demand requirements or have granted the domestic market the opportunity to acquire oil or diesel under terms similar to current domestic market prices and, in the case of diesel, they must also demonstrate, if applicable, that commercial terms offered to the domestic market are at least equal to those offered to their own gas station network. Furthermore, in December 2006, pursuant to SE Resolution No. 1,338/06, the SE extended these regulations to the export of gasoline, fuel oil and fuel oil mixtures, aero kerosene, jet fuel, lubricants, asphalts, coke and by-products for use in the petrochemical industry. In January 2008, the Argentine government temporarily prohibited the exports of gasoline and diesel until the domestic market was fully supplied at the prices in force on October 31, 2007. These restrictions may significantly and adversely affect the profitability of our operations, preventing us from capturing the upside of export prices, and negatively impacting the total volume of refined products sold in the domestic market, due to our need to manage crude oil volumes processed in accordance with our storage capacity. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not increase export restrictions on hydrocarbons and related oil products, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Export taxes and import regulations on our products have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, the profitability of our operations. On March 1, 2002, the Argentine government imposed a withholding tax on exports of hydrocarbons, initially lasting five years. The export tax was extended in 2006 by Law No. 26.217 and in 2011 by Law No. 26.732 and is in effect through 2015. This tax framework has prevented us from benefiting from significant increases in international prices for oil, oil related products and natural gas, hindered us from offsetting sustained increases in costs endemic to the energy industry, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. Effective November 2007, the Ministry of Economy adopted a more onerous method for calculating withholding taxes on exports of crude oil and certain oil by-products. On January 3, 2013, withholding taxes on exports of crude oil were reduced, enabling a reduction of the gap between local and exports net prices. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors affecting our consolidated results of operations—Regulations of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Withholding Taxes on Exports.” In addition, in 2012, the Argentine government adopted an import procedure pursuant to which local authorities must pre-approve any import of products and services to Argentina as a precondition to allow importers access to the foreign exchange market for the payment of such imported products and services. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will reduce current export tax rates and import regulations or will not increase them further. We cannot predict the impact that any changes may have on our results of operations and financial condition. Limitations on local pricing in Argentina may adversely affect our results of operations. In recent years, due to regulatory, economic and government policy factors, our domestic crude oil, gasoline, diesel and other fuel prices have frequently lagged substantially behind prevailing international and regional market prices for such products, and our ability to increase prices has been limited. Likewise, the prices at which we sell natural gas in Argentina (particularly to the residential sector) are subject to government regulations and currently are substantially below regional market prices for natural gas. Most recently, on April 10, 2013, Secretary of Domestic Trade Resolution No. 35/13 was published in the Official Gazette, setting maximum sales prices for liquid fuels for a period of six months, later extended for 45 additional days (Secretary of Domestic Trade Res. No. 108/13). Resolution No. 108/13 has not been extended. In February 2014, the Argentine government agreed with some of the main oil companies and refineries a 6% maximum increase in their liquid fuels prices, subject to monthly review, and promoted individual agreements between producers and refiners in order to apply gradual discounts in crude oil purchases. For additional information on domestic pricing for our products, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors Affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations—Regulation of the Energy Industry in Argentina” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of our Business—Argentine Regulatory Framework.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase the domestic prices of our products, and limitations on our ability to do so will continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we cannot assure you that hydrocarbon prices in Argentina will track increases or decreases in hydrocarbon prices in the international or regional markets. Oil and gas prices could affect our level of capital expenditures. The prices that we are able to obtain for our hydrocarbon products affect the viability of investments in new exploration, development and refining activities, and as a result the timing and amount of our projected capital expenditures for such purposes. We budget capital expenditures by taking into account, among other things, market prices for our hydrocarbon products. In the event that current domestic prices decrease, our ability to improve our hydrocarbon recovery rates, identify new reserves and carry out certain of our other capital expenditure plans is likely to be affected, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The Argentine government and our associated utility company are in the process of renegotiating utility contracts, and the recoverability of our investments in such associate depends on the successful completion of these negotiations. The macroeconomic situation of the country after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law impacted the economic and financial condition of utility companies in Argentina. The combined effect of (i) the devaluation of the peso in 2002, (ii) the government decision to freeze rates in pesos without reflecting the impact of the devaluation and (iii) financial debts primarily denominated in foreign currency, adversely affected the financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy financial obligations and pay dividends of utility companies. Although some of these utility companies have been successful in restructuring their indebtedness, their return to financial stability and profitability on a long-term basis depends on a successful negotiation of tariff increases with the Argentine government. Transportadora de Gas del Sur S.A. (“TGS”) has engaged in negotiations with the Utilities Contract Renegotiation and Analysis Committee (Unidad de Renegociación y Análisis de Contratos de Servicios Públicos, or the “UNIREN”). However, to date, these discussions have not resulted in tariff increases sufficient for our associated utility company to return to financial stability and profitability. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Gas and Energy—Gas Transportation—TGS—Tariff Renegotiation Process,” and “Item 4—Regulation of Our Business—Argentine Regulatory Framework—Natural Gas” and “—Electricity.” 15 Table of Contents Our activities may be adversely affected by events in other countries in which we do business. Our operations are concentrated in Latin America, a region that has experienced significant economic, social, political and regulatory volatility. In recent periods, many governments in Latin America have taken steps to assert greater control or increase their share of revenues from the energy sector, spurred by soaring oil and gas prices and nationalist politics. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of our Businesses—Venezuelan Regulatory Framework” and “—Bolivian Regulatory Framework.” These risks are evidenced by changes in business conditions that we have experienced in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Factors Affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Production—Production Outside Argentina.” We could be subject to organized labor action. Many of our operations are highly labor-intensive and require a significant number of workers. The sectors in which we operate are largely unionized. We have experienced organized work disruptions and stoppages in the past, frequently due to strikes by employees of contractors we employ. We cannot assure you that we will not experience such disruptions or work stoppages in the future, and any such action could adversely affect our business and revenues. In 2008, unionized employees went on strike over salary increases, adversely affecting our operations. In 2008, in the Austral basin in Argentina, the pace of production slowed as a result of the labor strike held by our contractor’s employees throughout May 2008, with an adverse impact on production levels in subsequent months. During each of 2009, 2010 and, to a lesser extent, 2011 and 2012, gas production in the Austral basin was affected by labor strikes. Except for trade union conflicts at the Zárate Plant between the months of March and June 2013, there were no significant labor strikes in 2013. We do not maintain insurance coverage for business interruptions, including business interruptions caused by labor actions. Strikes, picketing or other types of conflict with the unionized personnel may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations could cause environmental damage, and any changes in environmental laws or regulations may increase our operational costs. Some of our operations are subject to environmental risks that may arise unexpectedly and result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage, clean-up and repair expenses, equipment damage and liability in civil and administrative proceedings. We cannot assure you that we will not incur additional costs related to the environment in the future, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure you that the insurance coverage that we maintain is adequate to cover the losses that may potentially arise from these environmental risks. Furthermore, we are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations both in Argentina and in the other countries in which we operate. Local, provincial and national authorities in Argentina and other countries where we operate may implement new environmental laws and regulations, and are moving towards more stringent enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations, both of which may require us to incur higher compliance costs. For example, various initiatives in regions outside of Argentina have been made or proposed to regulate hydraulic fracturing processes (which involve injecting water, sand and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore), and drilling activities for non-conventional oil and gas reserves. The imposition of stringent regulatory and permitting requirements related to these practices in Argentina could significantly increase our cost of doing business. We cannot predict the overall effects of implementing new environmental laws and regulations and/or the more stringent enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Shares and ADSs Our principal shareholders can exercise control over the Company. As of the date of this Annual Report, Petrobras holds 67.2% of our capital stock and voting rights and the ANSES holds approximately 11.8% of our shares and voting rights. Petrobras will be able to determine or exercise significant influence on substantially all matters requiring approval by a majority of our shareholders, including the election of a majority of our directors. Petrobras will also direct our operations and may be able to cause or prevent a change in our control. We cannot assure you that the interests of our principal shareholders will not diverge from interests of our other investors. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” 16 Table of Contents Restrictions on capital outflows imposed by Argentina may impair your ability to receive dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds of any sale of, the shares underlying the ADSs. The government may impose temporary restrictions on capital movements in circumstances where a serious imbalance develops in Argentina’s balance of payments or where there are reasons to foresee such an imbalance. Additionally, commencing in October 2011, new regulations have been introduced by the Argentine government regarding the transfer of foreign currency abroad. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Controls.” We cannot assure you that Argentina will not impose restrictions on capital outflows and/or foreign exchange which could impair or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions, or the proceeds from any sale of shares, as the case may be, from pesos into U.S. dollars and the remittance of the U.S. dollars abroad. Under the terms of our Deposit Agreement with the depositary for the ADSs, the depositary will convert any cash dividend or other cash distribution we pay on the shares underlying the ADSs into U.S. dollars if, in the judgment of the depositary, that conversion can be made on a practicable basis, and shall distribute such U.S. dollars in accordance with the Deposit Agreement, subject, in each case, to any restrictions under Argentine laws or regulations or applicable permits issued by an Argentine governmental body. If the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be different from those in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Law No. 19,550 (the “Argentine Companies Law”), which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, rules governing the Argentine securities markets are different and may be subject to different enforcement in Argentina than in other jurisdictions. Sales of a substantial number of shares could decrease the market prices of our shares and the ADSs. Petrobras owns shares representing a significant majority of our capital stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares or ADSs by Petrobras, the ANSES, or any other future significant shareholder, or the anticipation of such sales, could decrease the trading price of our shares and ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive, accretion or other rights with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs. You may not be able to exercise the preemptive or accretion rights relating to the shares underlying your ADSs (see “Item 10. Additional Information—Preemptive Rights”) unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) is made effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration is available, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of your preemptive rights by the depositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. As a result, U.S. holders of our shares or ADSs may suffer dilution of their interest in our company upon future capital increases. In addition, under the Argentine Companies Law, foreign companies that own shares in an Argentine corporation are required to register with the Superintendency of Legal Entities (Inspección General de Justicia, or the “IGJ”) in order to exercise certain shareholder rights, including voting rights. If you own our shares directly (rather than in the form of ADSs) and you are a non-Argentine company and you fail to register with the IGJ, your ability to exercise your rights as a holder of our shares may be limited. You may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings. The depositary will be treated by us for all purposes as the shareholder with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs. As a holder of American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”) representing the ADSs being held by the depositary in your name, you will not have direct shareholder rights and may exercise voting rights with respect to the shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the Deposit Agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Argentine law or under our bylaws that limit the exercise by ADS holders of their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying shares. However, there are practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with these holders. ADS holders may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs as a result of these practical limitations. 17 Table of Contents Shareholders outside Argentina may face additional investment risk from currency exchange rate fluctuations in connection with their holding of our shares or ADSs. We are an Argentine company and any future payments of dividends on our shares will be denominated in pesos. The peso has historically fluctuated significantly against many major world currencies, including the U.S. dollar. A depreciation of the peso would likely adversely affect the U.S. dollar or other currency equivalent of any dividends paid on our shares and could result in a decline in the value of our shares and ADSs as measured in U.S. dollars. 18 Table of Contents 