RISK FACTORS Factors Relating to Argentina Political and economic instability in Argentina has affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are an Argentine corporation (sociedad anónima). As of December 31, 2011, approximately 84% of our total assets, 94% of our net sales, 87% of our combined crude oil and gas production and 84% of our proved oil and gas reserves were located in Argentina. Fluctuations in the Argentine economy and actions adopted by the Argentine government have had and may continue to have a significant impact on Argentine companies, including us. Specifically, we have been affected and may continue to be affected by inflation, interest rates, the value of the peso against foreign currencies, increasingly burdensome foreign exchange and price controls, regulatory policies, business and tax regulations and in general by the political, social and economic scenario in Argentina and in other countries that may affect Argentina. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. See “Item 4—Business Overview—Our Principal Market.” The crisis had significant and adverse consequences on our company, including (i) losses derived from the effects of the peso devaluation on our affiliates and our affiliates’ net borrowing position, which primarily was denominated in U.S. dollars, (ii) the impairment of the book value of certain gas areas and tax assets due to material changes in the prospects of our operations, (iii) a decrease in U.S. dollar cash flows due to the imposition of export taxes, (iv) limits on the availability in the financial market to renew our short-term lines of credit and the current portion of our medium and long-term financings at maturity and (v) restrictions on our ability to pass through the effects of inflation to the prices of products sold by us in the domestic market. In 2002, we reported a significant net loss and our liquidity was adversely affected. Within this context and in order to secure compliance with our financial commitments, we reduced our investment plan and reached an agreement with our financial creditors and holders of notes to extend the maturity profile of a substantial portion of our debt, at face value. As a result, capital expenditures in 2002, net of divestments, totaled only Ps. 139 million, a relatively low amount compared to our historical average investment. Following the 2001 crisis, the Argentine economy experienced a strong recovery. During 2008 and 2009, however, the Argentine economy suffered a new deceleration of activity caused by local and external factors, including an extended drought and effects from a global economic crisis. Real Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) growth recovered in 2010 and 2011, at annual rates of 9% according to the Ministry of Economy and Production (the “Ministry of Economy”). Nevertheless, uncertainty remains as to whether Argentina´s long-term growth will not be adversely affected by continued inflationary pressures, the loss of competitiveness and the lack of a legal framework that is suitable to attract foreign investments. We cannot provide any assurance that future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, over which we have no control, will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay our debts at maturity or dividends. The Argentine economy has been adversely affected by economic developments in other markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced by economic and market conditions in other markets worldwide. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perceptions of events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and investments in securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. Furthermore, the Argentine economy has been affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the Argentine financial system and securities markets will not continue to be adversely affected by events in developed countries’ economies or events in other emerging markets. This could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A lack of financing for Argentine companies, whether due to government regulation or market forces, may negatively impact the execution of our strategic business plan. The prospects for Argentine companies of accessing financial markets might be limited in terms of the amount of financing available, and the conditions and cost of such financing. The default on the Argentine sovereign debt at the end of 2001, the global economic crisis that started in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the resulting international stock market crash and the insolvency of major financial institutions toward the end of 2008, have limited the ability of Argentine companies to access international financial markets as they have in the past. Since June 2009, a greater number of Argentine companies have gained access to the international capital markets, albeit at conditions more onerous than competitors based in other countries in the region. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to execute and carry out our strategic business plan depends upon our ability to obtain financing at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. In recent years, we have regularly obtained financing from the private pension fund system in Argentina, which has been a significant purchaser of our debt and shares. However, in November 2008 the Argentine National Congress passed a law eliminating the private pension system, mandating that funds administered by the private Retirement and Pension Funds Administrators (the “AFJP”), be transferred to a new administrator, the National Social Security Administration (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, the “ANSES”). Because the private pension funds until that moment had been major institutional investors in the Argentine capital markets, the transfer of their assets to a state-run administrator has led to a decline in liquidity in the local capital markets, and may limit the sources of financing for Argentine companies, including us. If we are unable to gain access to international or local financial markets to refinance our indebtedness at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, we may have to reduce our projected capital expenditures, which, in turn, may negatively affect the implementation of our business plan. Fluctuations in the value of the peso may adversely affect the Argentine economy, our financial condition and the results of operations. The value of the peso has fluctuated significantly in the past and may do so in the future. Since the end of the Ps.1.00 to U.S.$1.00 parity in January 2002, the peso has fluctuated significantly in value. As a result, the Central Bank has taken several measures to stabilize the exchange rate. The marked devaluation of the peso in 2002 had a negative impact on the ability of the Argentine government and companies to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, led to very high inflation initially and had a negative impact on businesses whose success depends on domestic market demand, including public utilities. The significant peso devaluation during 2002 adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our financial debt and a significant portion of our affiliates’ debt were denominated in U.S. dollars. Before the enactment of the Public Emergency Law in January 2002, our cash flow, generally denominated in U.S. dollars or dollar-adjusted, provided a natural hedge against exchange rate risks. The Argentine regulatory framework after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law (which included the pesification of utility rates, regulatory issues related to the renegotiation of pesified utility rates, new taxes on hydrocarbon exports, and the implementation of regulations to prevent an increase in prices to final users in the domestic market and restrictions on exports), however, limited our ability to hedge the impact of the peso devaluation. If the peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences to our business. Furthermore, a substantial increase in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy since it may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account balance and the balance of payments. We are unable to predict the future value of the peso against the U.S. dollar and how any fluctuations may affect the demand of our products and services. Moreover, the Argentine government may introduce regulatory changes that prevent or limit us from offsetting the risk derived from our exposure to the U.S. dollar and, if so, we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 3 – Exchange Rates” Inflation may escalate and undermine economic growth in Argentina and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to stimulate economic growth. During 2002, the Argentine consumers price index increased by 41%, and the wholesale price index increased by 118.2%. This inflation reflected both the effect of the peso devaluation on production costs and a significant change in relative prices, which was partially offset by the elimination of rate adjustments and a strong drop in demand as a result of the recession. According to inflation data published by the National Statistics Institute, in 2003, the rate of inflation decreased significantly, a 3.7% increase in the consumer price index and a 2.0% increase in the wholesale price index. In addition, according to inflation data published by the INDEC, from 2007 to 2011, the Argentine consumer price index increased 8.5%, 7.2%, 7.7%, 10.9% and 9.5%, respectively; and the wholesale price index increased 14.4%, 8.8%, 10.3%, 14.5% and 12.7%, respectively. Notwithstanding the above mentioned, reports published by the IMF state that their staff is also using alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, which have shown inflation rates considerably higher than those issued by the INDEC since 2007. The IMF has called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the quality of official data. 11 Table of Contents Uncertainty surrounding future inflation may result in slowed economic activity and reduced growth. A high inflation environment could also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the peso devaluation, with negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment. Sustained inflation in Argentina, without a corresponding increase in the price paid by consumers for our products in the local market would have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot estimate how our activities and results of operations will be affected by inflation in the future. Exchange controls in Argentina may impair our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations and pay dividends. After December 2001, the Argentine authorities implemented a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures that included restrictions on the withdrawal of funds deposited with banks, the obligation to deposit foreign currency from exports with the Central Bank, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad as well as restrictions relating to the servicing of foreign debt. The Central Bank has since issued a number of regulations aimed at gradually normalizing the domestic exchange market and, as a result, most restrictions in connection with the repayment of foreign creditors and the payment of dividends to foreign shareholders have been lifted. Nevertheless, certain exchange controls, including those imposed on foreign loans to the Argentine private sector, remain in place, with related requirements concerning the term of such loans, their denomination and transferability. See “Item 3— Exchange Rates—Exchange controls,” and “Item 5—Description of Indebtedness.” On October 26, 2011, the Argentine government issued Decree No. 1,722/11 providing that all foreign currency revenues obtained from exports made by mining and oil and gas companies must be repatriated and sold within the local foreign exchange market, which is the general regime applicable to export revenues generated by Argentine exports. Prior to the issuance of Decree No. 1,722/11, companies engaged in the hydrocarbon exploration and development benefited from a special regime that allowed them to retain overseas up to 70% of the proceeds of certain exports. In a further attempt to ease the pressure on the dollar and decrease the outflow of the Central Bank’s foreign currency reserves, through Resolution No. 36,162/11 of the Superintendencia de Seguros de la Nación, dated October 26, 2011, the Argentine government ordered insurance companies to repatriate their foreign investments. The Argentine government may impose additional exchange controls, which may adversely affect the Company´s ability to pay principal or interest payments on its debt when it becomes due or to pay dividends. See “item 3 – Risk Factors—Exchange controls in Argentina may impair our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations and pay dividends,” “Item 3—Exchange Rates—Exchange controls” and “Item 5—Description of Indebtedness.” Factors Relating to Our Business Substantial or extended declines and volatility in the prices of crude oil, oil products and natural gas may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of crude oil, oil products and natural gas. Factors affecting international prices for crude oil and related oil products include: political developments in crude oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East; the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other crude oil producing nations to set and maintain crude oil production levels and prices; global and regional supply and demand for crude oil; competition from other energy sources; domestic and foreign government regulations; weather conditions and global conflicts or acts of terrorism. We have no control over these factors. Changes in crude oil prices generally result in changes in prices for related products. International oil prices have fluctuated widely over the last ten years. Substantial or extended declines in international prices of crude oil and related oil products may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the value of our proved reserves. In addition, significant decreases in the prices of crude oil and related oil products may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserve estimates in the future. 12 Table of Contents Argentine oil and gas production concessions and exploration permits are subject to certain conditions and may not be renewed or could be revoked. The Hydrocarbons Law provides for oil and gas concessions to remain in effect for 25 years as from the date of their award, and further provides for the concession term to be extended for up to 10 additional years, subject to terms and conditions approved by the grantor at the time of the extension. The authority to extend the terms of current and new permits, concessions and contracts has been vested with the government of the province in which the relevant area is located (and the Argentine government in respect of offshore areas beyond 12 nautical miles). In order to be eligible for the extension, any concessionaire and permit holder must have complied with its obligations under the Hydrocarbons Law and the terms of the particular concession or permit, including evidence of payment of taxes and royalties, the supply of the necessary technology, equipment and labor force and compliance with various environmental, investment and development obligations. Under the Hydrocarbons Law, non-compliance with these obligations and standards may also result in the imposition of fines and in the case of material breaches, following the expiration of applicable cure periods, the revocation of the concession or permit. We cannot provide assurances that concessions that have not yet been renewed will be extended or that additional investment, royalty payment or other requirements will not be imposed on us in order to obtain extensions. See “item 4—Business Overview – Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Statistical Information Relating to Oil and Gas Production.” On April 4, 2012, the Company received notice of the decision by the government of the Province of Neuquén to terminate the concession for the Veta Escondida area. Within this context, the Company will enforce its rights regarding this reversal by the Province of Neuquén. A number of provincial governments have also recently revoked certain of YPF S.A.´s (“YPF”) concessions for lack of investment. The termination or revocation of, or failure to obtain the extension of, additional concessions or permits could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See “Item 4—Regulation of Our Business.” Our crude oil and natural gas reserves estimates involve some degree of uncertainty which could adversely affect our ability to generate income. The proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this Annual Report account for our estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions according to applicable regulations. Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are those that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. See “Item 4—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Reserves.” Proved reserve estimates could be materially different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, and downward revisions of our estimates could impact our future results of operations and business plan, including our level of capital expenditures. We may not be able to replace our oil and gas reserves and this may have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have experienced a decline in reserves and production, including as a result of the sale of our interest in PVIE, new regulations in Bolivia which prevent us from accounting for reserves (see “Item 4— Business Overview—Reserves—Internal Control over Proved Reserves”) as well as our decision of not to migrate to service contracts for Block 18 and Palo Azul Unified Field in Ecuador. The possibility of replacing our crude oil and gas reserves in the future is dependent on our ability to access new reserves, both through successful exploration and reserve acquisitions. We consider exploration, which carries inherent risks and uncertainties, our main vehicle for future growth and reserves replacement. Without successful exploration activities or reserve acquisitions, our proved reserves will decline as our oil and gas production will be forced to rely on our current portfolio of assets. We cannot guarantee that our exploration, development and acquisition activities will allow us to offset the decline of our reserves. If we are not able to successfully find, develop or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and therefore our production may continue to decline and, consequently, this may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The Argentine government has intervened in the oil and gas industry in the past, and is likely to continue to intervene. To address the Argentine crisis of 2001 and 2002, the Argentine Congress enacted the Public Emergency Law and other emergency regulations, some of which continue in effect to date. Some of these regulations introduced a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the oil and gas industry in Argentina, and to other industries on which the Company´s affiliates are active, like the electricity industry. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Public Emergency Law is still in effect. In addition, the Argentine government continues to introduce material changes to the regulatory regime applicable to the oil and gas industry, such as the recent revocation of the Petróleo Plus (“Oil Plus”) and Refinación Plus (“Refining Plus”) programs, or the obligation to repatriate and sell in the local market 100% of the foreign currency revenues obtained from oil and gas exports. On April 16, 2012, the Argentine government, through Decree No. 530/12, removed YPF´s senior officers and empowered a government interventor of YPF for a period of 30 days with immediate effect. On May 3, 2012 the Argentine Congress enacted Law No. 26,741 for the expropriation of 51% of YPF´s Class D shares, out of the shares currently held by Repsol YPF S.A. (Spain), and 51% of Repsol YPF GAS S.A., represented by 60% of its Class A shares then held by Repsol Butano S.A. (Spain). Additionally, Law No. 26,741 declares that hydrocarbons self-sufficiency, as well as their production, industrialization, transport and marketing, are activities of public interest and primary goals of Argentina, empowering the Argentine government to take the necessary measures to achieve such goals. The Company has a number of areas under concession held jointly with YPF, as well as joint ownership of some affiliates. The Argentine government´s expropriation of a majority of shares in YPF and intervention in YPF´s business could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Limits on exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations. In recent periods, the Argentine government has introduced a series of measures limiting exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products, which have prevented us from profiting from higher prices of these commodities in the international markets, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. In April 2004, to facilitate the recovery of natural gas prices, the Argentine Secretary of Energy (the “SE”) entered into an agreement with natural gas producers requiring them to sell a specified amount of gas in the local regulated market. During 2006, the SE required producers to redirect gas earmarked for export to supply local thermal power plants and gas distribution companies. In January 2007, the SE confirmed that the ability to export hydrocarbons would be subject to the satisfaction of domestic demand and that export would have to be authorized on a case-by-case basis by the SE. These measures prevent us from benefiting from higher margins in the international markets. In 2007, upon the expiration of the aforementioned agreement, the Argentine government and producers signed a new agreement effective until 2011 aimed at securing the domestic supply of gas. Under these agreements, temporary limits on certain natural gas exports have been imposed to avoid a crisis in the local supply of natural gas, depriving us of higher margins in the international markets. Pursuant to SE Resolution No. 1679/04, since December 2004, producers must obtain the approval of the Argentine government prior to exporting crude oil or diesel oil. To obtain this approval, exporters must demonstrate that they have either satisfied local demand requirements or have granted the domestic market the opportunity to acquire oil or diesel oil under terms similar to current domestic market prices and, in the case of diesel oil, they must also demonstrate, if applicable, that commercial terms offered to the domestic market are at least equal to those offered to their own gas station network. Furthermore, in December 2006, pursuant to SE Resolution No. 1338/06, the SE extended these regulations to the export of gasoline, fuel oil and fuel oil mixtures, diesel oil, aero kerosene, jet fuel, lubricants, asphalts, coke and by-products for use in the petrochemical industry. In January 2008 the Argentine government temporarily prohibited the exports of gasoline and diesel oil until the domestic market was fully supplied at the prices in force on October 31, 2007. 14 Table of Contents These restrictions may significantly and adversely affect the profitability of our operations, preventing us from capturing the upside of export prices, and negatively impacting the total volume of refined products sold in the domestic market, due to our need to manage crude oil volumes processed in accordance with our storage capacity. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not increase export restrictions on hydrocarbons and related oil products. If it were to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Export taxes on our products have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, the profitability of our operations. On March 1, 2002, the Argentine government imposed a withholding tax on exports of hydrocarbons, initially lasting five years. This tax framework has prevented us from benefiting from significant increases in international prices for oil, oil related products and natural gas, hindered us from offsetting sustained increases in costs endemic to the energy industry, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. Effective November 2007, the Ministry of Economy adopted a more onerous method for calculating withholding taxes on exports of crude oil and certain oil by-products. See “Item 5—Factors affecting our consolidated results of operations—Regulations of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Withholding Taxes on Exports.” We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will reduce current export tax rates or will not increase them further. We cannot predict the impact that any changes may have on our results of operations and financial condition. Limitations on local pricing in Argentina may adversely affect our results of operations. In recent years, due to regulatory, economic and government policy factors, our domestic crude oil, gasoline, diesel and other fuel prices have frequently lagged substantially behind prevailing international and regional market prices for such products, and our ability to increase prices has been limited. Likewise, the prices at which we sell natural gas in Argentina (particularly to the residential sector) are subject to government regulations and currently are substantially below regional market prices for natural gas. For additional information on domestic pricing for our products, see “Item 5—Factors Affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations—Regulation of the Energy Industry in Argentina” and “Item 4—Regulation of our Business—Argentine Regulatory Framework.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase the domestic prices of our products, and limitations on our ability to do so will continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we cannot assure you that hydrocarbon prices in Argentina will track increases or decreases in hydrocarbon prices in the international or regional markets. Oil and gas prices could affect our level of capital expenditures. The prices that we are able to obtain for our hydrocarbon products affect the viability of investments in new exploration, development and refining, and as a result the timing and amount of our projected capital expenditures for such purposes. We budget capital expenditures by taking into account, among other things, market prices for our hydrocarbon products. In the event that current domestic prices decrease, our ability to improve our hydrocarbon recovery rates, identify new reserves and carry out certain of our other capital expenditure plans is likely to be affected, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The Argentine government and our affiliated utility companies are in the process of renegotiating utility contracts, and the recoverability of our investments in these affiliates depends on the successful completion of these negotiations. The macroeconomic situation of the country after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law impacted the economic and financial condition of utility companies in Argentina. The combined effect of (i) the devaluation of the peso in 2002, (ii) the government decision to freeze rates in pesos without reflecting the impact of the devaluation and (iii) financial debts primarily denominated in foreign currency, adversely affected the financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy financial obligations and pay dividends of utility companies. Although some of these utility companies have been successful in restructuring their indebtedness, their return to financial stability and profitability on a long-term basis depends on a successful negotiation of tariff increases with the Argentine government. Our affiliates Edesur S.A. (“EDESUR”) and Transportadora de Gas del Sur S.A. (“TGS”) have engaged in negotiations with the Utilities Contract Renegotiation and Analysis Committee (Unidad de Renegociación y Análisis de Contratos de Servicios Públicos) (“UNIREN”). However, to date, these discussions have not resulted in tariff increases sufficient for our affiliated utility companies to return to financial stability and profitability. See “Item 4—Gas and Energy—Gas Transportation-TGS—Tariff Renegotiation Process” and “Item 4—Gas and Energy— Electricity—Electricity Distribution: EDESUR” and “Item 4—Regulation of Our Business—Argentine Regulatory Framework—Natural Gas and Electricity.” 15 Table of Contents Our operations could be adversely affected by events beyond our control. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed, interrupted or canceled as a result of weather conditions, mechanical difficulties, shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment, coercive actions and compliance with governmental requirements, or other events that could adversely impact our costs of production, results of operation and financial condition. For example, from March 9, 2007 to April 10, 2007, operations in Block 18, in Ecuador, were curtailed as a result of coercive actions taken by local communities. During this period, cumulative oil production decreased by approximately 305,000 barrels of oil equivalent in our participation. Future events beyond our control may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our activities may be adversely affected by events in countries in which we do business. Our operations are concentrated in Latin America, a region that has experienced significant economic, social, political and regulatory volatility. In recent periods, many governments in Latin America have taken steps to assert greater control or increase their share of revenues from the energy sector, spurred by soaring oil and gas prices and nationalist politics. See “Item 4—Regulation of our Businesses—Venezuelan Regulatory Framework—Bolivian Regulatory Framework.” These risks are evidenced by changes in business conditions that we have experienced in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador. See “Item 5—Factors affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations” See “Item 4—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Production—Production Outside Argentina.” We could be subject to organized labor action. Many of our operations are highly labor-intensive and require a significant number of workers. The sectors in which we operate are largely unionized. We have experienced organized work disruptions and stoppages in the past, frequently due to strikes by employees of contractors we employ. We cannot assure you that we will not experience such disruptions or work stoppages in the future, and any such action could adversely affect our business and revenues. In 2008 unionized employees went on strike over salary increases, adversely affecting our operations. In 2008, in the Austral basin in Argentina, the pace of production slowed as a result of the labor strike held by our contractor’s employees throughout May 2008, with an adverse impact on production levels in subsequent months. During 2009, 2010 and 2011, to a lesser extent, gas production in the Austral basin was affected by labor strikes by contractors’ personnel. See “Item 6– Employees.” We do not maintain insurance coverage for business interruptions, including business interruptions caused by labor actions. Strikes, picketing or other types of conflict with the unionized personnel may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations could cause environmental damage, and any changes in environmental laws may increase our operational costs. Some of our operations are subject to environmental risks that may arise unexpectedly and result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in personal injuries, loss of life, environmental damage, clean-up and repair expenses, equipment damage and liability in civil and administrative proceedings. We cannot assure you that we will not incur in additional costs related to the environment in the future, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot assure that the insurance coverage that we maintain is adequate to cover the losses that may potentially arise from these environmental risks. Furthermore, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation both in Argentina and in the other countries in which we operate. Local, provincial and national authorities in Argentina and other countries where we operate are moving towards more stringent enforcement of environmental laws, which may require us to incur in higher compliance costs. We cannot predict what effects this may have on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Shares and ADSs Our principal shareholders can exercise control over the Company. As of the date of this Annual Report, Petrobras holds 67.2% of our capital stock and voting rights and ANSES holds approximately 9.8% of our shares and voting rights. Petrobras will be able to determine or influence substantially on all matters requiring approval by a majority of our shareholders, including the election of a majority of our directors. Petrobras will also direct our operations and may be able to cause or prevent a change in our control. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” Restrictions on capital outflows imposed by Argentina may impair your ability to receive dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds of any sale of, the shares underlying the ADSs. Argentine law currently permits the government to impose temporary restrictions on capital movements in circumstances where a serious imbalance develops in Argentina’s balance of payments or where there are reasons to foresee such an imbalance. Restrictions on capital outflows imposed by Argentina such as those that existed following the 2001 Argentine crisis could, if reinstated, impair or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions, or the proceeds from any sale of shares, as the case may be, from pesos into U.S. dollars and the remittance of the U.S. dollars abroad. We cannot assure that the Argentine government will not take such measures in the future. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with the depositary for the ADSs, the depositary will convert any cash dividend or other cash distribution we pay on the shares underlying the ADSs into U.S. dollars if, in the judgment of the depositary, that can be made on a practicable basis, and shall distribute such U.S. dollars in accordance with the Deposit Agreement subject, in each case, to any restrictions under Argentine laws or regulations or applicable permits issued by an Argentine governmental body. If the exchange rate fluctuates significantly during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, you may lose some or all of the value of the dividend distribution. Under Argentine law, shareholder rights may be different from other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and by Argentine Companies Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in other jurisdictions outside Argentina. In addition, rules governing the Argentine securities markets are different and may be subject to different enforcement in Argentina than in other jurisdictions. Sales of a substantial number of shares could decrease the market prices of our shares and the ADSs. Petrobras owns shares representing a significant majority of our capital stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares or ADSs by Petrobras, ANSES, or any other future significant shareholder, or the anticipation of such sales, could decrease the trading price of our shares and ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive, accretion or other rights with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs. You may not be able to exercise the preemptive or accretion rights relating to the shares underlying your ADSs (see “Item 10. Additional Information—Preemptive Rights”) unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration is available, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of your preemptive rights by the depositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. As a result, U.S. holders of shares or ADSs may suffer dilution of their interest in our company upon future capital increases. In addition, under the Argentine Companies Law, foreign companies that own shares in an Argentine corporation are required to register with the Inspección General de Justicia (Superintendency of Legal Entities, the “IGJ”) in order to exercise certain shareholder rights, including voting rights. If you own our shares directly (rather than in the form of ADSs) and you are a non-Argentine company and you fail to register with IGJ, your ability to exercise your rights as a holder of our shares may be limited. You may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs at our shareholders’ meetings. The depositary will be treated by us for all purposes as the shareholder with respect to the shares underlying your ADSs. As a holder of ADRs representing the ADSs being held by the depositary in your name, you will not have direct shareholder rights and may exercise voting rights with respect to the shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Argentine law or under our by-laws that limit the exercise by ADS holders of their voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying shares. However, there are practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with these holders. ADS holders may be unable to exercise voting rights with respect to the shares underlying the ADSs as a result of these practical limitations. 17 Table of Contents Shareholders outside Argentina may face additional investment risk from currency exchange rate fluctuations in connection with their holding of our shares or ADSs. We are an Argentine company and any future payments of dividends on our shares will be denominated in pesos. The peso has historically fluctuated significantly against many major world currencies, including the U.S. dollar. A depreciation of the peso would likely adversely affect the U.S. dollar or other currency equivalent of any dividends paid on our shares and could result in a decline in the value of our shares and ADSs as measured in U.S. dollars. 18 Table of Contents 