ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our common stock you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the financial and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10–K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and our other periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial conditions and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock may decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We are vulnerable to economic downturns in the commercial construction market, which may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. Portions of our business, in particular those of Jefferson Electric, Inc. and Bemag Transformer Inc., involve sales of our products in connection with commercial and industrial construction. Our sales to this sector are affected by the levels of discretionary business spending. During economic downturns in this sector, the levels of business discretionary spending may decrease. This decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. The commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors began to experience a significant decline in 2008. The downturn in these segments contributed to a decline in the demand for our standard distribution transformer products and adversely affected Jefferson Electric, Inc.’s sales and earnings in 2008 through 2010. We cannot predict the timing, duration or severity of another such downturn in these segments which may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which makes our operating results difficult to predict and can cause our operating results in any particular period to be less than comparable quarters and expectations from time to time. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control and have the potential to materially and adversely affect our results. Factors that affect our operating results include the following: ·the size, timing and terms of sales and orders, especially large customer orders; ·variations caused by customers delaying, deferring or canceling purchase orders or making smaller purchases than expected; ·the timing and volume of work under new agreements; ·the spending patterns of customers; ·customer orders received; ·a change in the mix of our products having different margins; ·a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; ·increases in design and manufacturing costs; ·the length of our sales cycles; ·the rates at which customers renew their contracts with us; ·changes in pricing by us or our competitors, or the need to provide discounts to win business; ·a change in the demand or production of our products caused by severe weather conditions; ·our ability to control costs, including operating expenses; ·losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; ·the ability and willingness of customers to pay amounts owed to us; ·the timing of significant investments in the growth of our business, as the revenue and profit we hope to generate from those expenses may lag behind the timing of expenditures; ·costs related to the acquisition and integration of companies or assets; 11 ·general economic trends, including changes in equipment spending or national or geopolitical events such as economic crises, wars or incidents of terrorism; and ·future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for an entire year. Our industry is highly competitive. The electrical transmission and distribution equipment industry is highly competitive. Principal competitors in our markets include ABB Ltd., Carte International, Inc., Eaton Corporation plc, Emerson Electric Company, General Electric Company, Hammond Power Solutions Inc., Howard Industries, Inc., Partner Technologies, Inc., Russelectric, Inc. and Schneider Electric SA. Many of these competitors, as well as other companies in the broader electrical equipment manufacturing and service industry where we expect to compete, are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to achieve greater economies of scale and lower cost structures than us and may, therefore, be able to provide their products and services to customers at lower prices than we are able to. Moreover, our competitors could develop the expertise, experience and resources to offer products that are superior in both price and quality to our products. While we seek to compete by providing more customized, highly-engineered products, there are few technical or other barriers to prevent much larger companies in our industry from putting more emphasis on this same strategy. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to market our business effectively in the face of competition or to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base. Our inability to manage our business in light of the competitive forces we face could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from two customers, any decrease in orders from these customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on Hydro-Quebec Utility Company and Siemens Industry, Inc. for a large portion of our business, and any change in the level of orders from Hydro-Quebec Utility Company or Siemens Industry, Inc., has, in the past, had a significant impact on our results of operations. In particular, Hydro-Quebec Utility Company represented approximately 19% of our net sales in the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. In addition, Siemens Industry, Inc. accounted for 12% of our net sales in the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our long term supply agreements with Hydro-Quebec Utility Company had an initial term expiring in April 2012, and two one-year extension options, the second of which was exercised by Hydro-Quebec Utility Company in 2013, and which was followed by an additional six month extension option at Hydro-Quebec Utility Company’s request, thereby extending our contracts through September 2014. We therefore cannot assure you that Hydro-Quebec Utility Company will continue to purchase transformers from us in quantities consistent with the past or at all. In addition, our pricing agreement with Siemens Industry, Inc. does not obligate Siemens Industry, Inc. to purchase transformers from us in quantities consistent with the past or at all. If either of these customers was to significantly cancel, delay or reduce the amount of business it does with us for any reason, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The departure or loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend heavily on the continued efforts of Nathan J. Mazurek, our principal executive officer, and on other senior officers who are responsible for the day-to-day management of our five operating subsidiaries. In addition, we rely on our current electrical and mechanical design engineers, along with trained coil winders, many of whom are important to our operations and would be difficult to replace. We cannot be certain that any of these individuals will continue in their respective capacities for any particular period of time. The departure or loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. 12 We may not be able to expand our business through strategic acquisitions, which could decrease our profitability. A key element of our strategy is to pursue strategic acquisitions that either expand or complement our business in order to increase revenue and earnings. We may not be able to identify additional attractive acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us or in a timely manner. We may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, which may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. Moreover, we may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses into our business or to operate any acquired businesses profitably. Recently acquired businesses may operate at lower profit margins, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Each of these factors may contribute to our inability to grow our business through strategic acquisitions, which could ultimately result in increased costs without a corresponding increase in revenues, which would result in decreased profitability. Any acquisitions that we complete may not perform as planned and could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operations. In an effort to effectively compete in the specialty electrical equipment manufacturing and service businesses, where increasing competition and industry consolidation prevail, we will seek to acquire complementary businesses in the future. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: ·issue additional securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership or provide the purchasers of the additional securities with certain preferences over those of common stockholders, such as dividend or liquidation preferences; ·incur debt and assume liabilities; and ·incur large and immediate write-offs of intangible assets, accounts receivable or other assets. These events could result in significant expenses and decreased revenue, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, integrating product acquisitions and completing any future acquisitions involve numerous operational and financial risks. These risks include difficulty in assimilating acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention, and the potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired operations. Furthermore, companies acquired by us may not generate financial results consistent with our management’s plans at the time of acquisition. For example, through transactions completed in June and August 2010, we acquired substantially all the assets and the capital stock of AAER Inc. to form Pioneer Wind Energy Systems Inc., a business that sought to provide project integration solutions, including equipment sales, procurement, after-sales services and financing to community wind and industrial customers. In September 2011, following weak domestic wind energy market conditions, combined with our inability to establish an arrangement, on commercially acceptable terms, with a qualified third party to provide outsourced parts procurement and assembly services, we decided to discontinue this business. On a cumulative basis, from formation through to the discontinuation of Pioneer Wind Energy Systems Inc., our results from operations were impacted by a cumulative net loss of $3.0 million. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business that we acquire, we may be required subsequently to take write downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. As part of our acquisition strategy, we will need to conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. We may have limited time to conduct such due diligence. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business that we acquire, we cannot assure you that this diligence will uncover all material issues relating to a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in us reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants that we may be subject to as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. 13 Our revenue may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A majority of our revenue and a significant portion of our expenditures are derived or spent in Canadian dollars. However, we report our financial condition and results of operations in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar will impact the amount of our revenues and earnings. For example, if the Canadian dollar appreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, the fluctuation will result in a positive impact on the revenues that we report. However, if the Canadian dollar depreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, there will be a negative impact on the revenues we report due to such fluctuation. It is possible that the impact of currency fluctuations will result in a decrease in reported sales even though we have experienced an increase in sales when reported in the Canadian dollar. Conversely, the impact of currency fluctuations may result in an increase in reported sales despite declining sales when reported in the Canadian dollar. The exchange rate from the U.S. dollar to the Canadian dollar has fluctuated substantially in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Though we may choose to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes in the future, there is no guarantee such hedging, if undertaken, will be successful. We may be unable to generate internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to attract new customers, increases or decreases in the number or size of orders received from existing customers, hiring and retaining skilled employees and increasing volume utilizing our existing facilities. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be implemented with positive results or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we do not achieve internal growth, our results of operations will suffer and we will likely not be able to expand our operations or grow our business. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials used to manufacture our products may reduce our profits. Our raw material costs represented approximately 59% and 64% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The principal raw materials purchased by us are electrical core steel, copper wire, aluminum strip and insulating materials including transformer oil. We also purchase certain electrical components from a variety of suppliers including bushings, switches, fuses and protectors. These raw materials and components are available from, and supplied by, numerous sources at competitive prices, although there are more limited sources of supply for electrical core steel and transformer oil. Unanticipated increases in raw material prices or disruptions in supply could increase production costs and adversely affect our profitability. We cannot provide any assurances that we will not experience difficulties sourcing our raw materials in the future. Our Bemag Transformer Inc. subsidiary currently derives a significant portion of its revenues from three electrical distributor groups; any decrease in orders from these distributors could have an adverse effect on Bemag Transformer Inc.’s financial condition and operating results. Bemag Transformer Inc. depends on three electrical distributor groups for a large portion of its business, and any change in the level of orders from these distributors, has, in the past, had a significant impact on Bemag Transformer Inc.’s results of operations. Collectively, purchases from these distributor groups represented approximately 52% of Bemag Transformer Inc.’s sales in 2013 and approximately 8% of our sales on a consolidated basis. We expect aggregate sales to these distributor groups to continue to represent less than 10% of our consolidated sales in 2014. Our Bemag Transformer Inc. subsidiary has pricing and rebate agreements with these distributor groups that are negotiated annually and, if the pricing and rebate agreements are modified or not renewed in future periods or are less favorable than those offered by competitors, we cannot assure you that these distributor groups will continue to purchase transformers from us in quantities consistent with the past or at all. If any of these distributor groups were to influence our customers to cancel, significantly delay or reduce the amount of business they do with Bemag Transformer Inc., there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, although Bemag Transformer Inc. has agreements for the sale of its products through these three distributor groups, these agreements do not obligate the groups to distribute transformers from Bemag Transformer Inc. in quantities consistent with the past or at all. If any of these distributor groups were to become insolvent, our business, financial condition and operating results could also be materially adversely affected. 14 We have, and expect to continue to have, credit facilities with restrictive loan covenants that may impact our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. We will continue to rely on our credit facilities with Bank of Montreal for a significant portion of the working capital to operate our business and execute our strategy. These credit facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: ·undergo a change in control; ·incur new indebtedness or other obligations, subject to certain exceptions; ·pay cash dividends; ·create or incur new liens, subject to certain exceptions; ·make new acquisitions or investments in other entities, subject to certain exceptions; ·wind up, liquidate or dissolve our affairs; ·change the nature of our core business; ·alter our capital structure in a manner that would be materially adverse to our lenders; and ·make investments or advancements to affiliated or related companies. The majority of the liquidity derived from our credit facilities is based on availability determined by a borrowing base. Specifically, the availability of credit is dependent upon eligible receivables, inventory and certain liens. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of eligible assets to support our required liquidity. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet certain financial ratios, including maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratios, funded debt to total capitalization ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. Our ability to meet these financial provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our credit facilities, our lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under those facilities, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The indebtedness under our credit facilities with Bank of Montreal is secured by substantially all of our consolidated assets. As a result of these security interests, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations. In addition, the existence of these security interests may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Indebtedness under our credit facilities with Bank of Montreal is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under our credit facilities, Bank of Montreal would have a prior right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, or reorganization. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by them (including all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement), resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured indebtedness. Only after satisfying the claims of our unsecured creditors and our subsidiaries’ unsecured creditors would any amount be available for our equity holders. The pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under these financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. 15 We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog. We routinely have a backlog of work to be completed on contracts representing a significant portion of our annual sales. As of December 31, 2013, our order backlog was $24.4 million. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts that we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business taken, which represents the revenue value of new customer orders received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of customer orders that either (1) have not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet completed. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, customer orders are canceled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new business taken. In the event of a customer order cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to us being unable to recover certain direct costs, canceled customer orders may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting underutilization of our assets. We are subject to pricing pressure from our larger customers. We face significant pricing pressures in all of our business segments from our larger customers, including Hydro-Quebec Utility Company and Siemens Industry, Inc. Because of their purchasing size, our larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have an adverse impact on our financial results. Deterioration in the credit quality of several major customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant asset included in our working capital is accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable become insolvent or are otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. A significant deterioration in the economy could have an adverse effect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. Deterioration in the credit quality of Hydro-Quebec Utility Company, Siemens Industry, Inc. or of any other major customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We rely on third parties for key elements of our business whose operations are outside our control. We rely on arrangements with third party shippers and carriers such as independent shipping companies for timely delivery of our products to our customers. As a result, we may be subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters and rapidly increasing fuel costs. If the services of any of these third parties become unsatisfactory, we may experience delays in meeting our customers’ product demands and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. Any failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and could cause us to lose customers. We also utilize third party distributors and manufacturer’s representatives to sell, install and service certain of our products. While we are selective in whom we choose to represent us, it is difficult for us to ensure that our distributors and manufacturer’s representatives consistently act in accordance with the standards we set for them. To the extent any of our end-customers have negative experiences with any of our distributors or manufacturer’s representatives, it could reflect poorly on us and damage our reputation, thereby negatively impacting our financial results. We may face impairment charges if economic environments in which our business operates and key economic and business assumptions substantially change. Assessment of the potential impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets is an integral part of our normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of long-lived assets is dependent on numerous assumptions and reflects our best estimates at a particular point in time, which may vary from testing date to testing date. The economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions with respect to projected product selling prices and materials costs, market growth and inflation rates, can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Changes in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on both the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time at which such impairments are recognized. Future changes in the economic environment and the economic outlook for the assets being evaluated could also result in additional impairment charges. Any significant asset impairments would adversely impact our financial results. 16 Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages, increased labor costs or loss of our most skilled workers could impair our ability to deliver on time to our customers (thereby creating a risk that we lose our customers to competition) and would inhibit our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues, and may adversely impact our profitability. Our business operations are dependent upon our ability to engage in successful collective bargaining with our unionized workforce. Approximately 65% of our workforce is unionized. Our current collective bargaining agreements with our unionized workforces in Canada expire in May 2015, in the case of Pioneer Transformers Ltd., and in the case of Bemag Transformer Inc., expired in March 2013. We are in the process of negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement with our unionized workforce at Bemag Transformer Inc. which may take several months to complete. There can be no assurance we will be successful in this effort. We have similar labor agreements with our unionized workforce in Reynosa, Mexico that has an indefinite term, subject to annual review and negotiation of key provisions. In addition, certain of our hourly employees located at our manufacturing facility in Santa Fe Springs, California are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with Local Union 1710 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO with an initial term ending in May 2014, with automatic one year renewals thereafter unless terminated earlier by either party for review and negotiation of key provisions. If we are unable to renew our collective bargaining agreements, or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages. Strikes or labor disputes with our employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Deploying a new enterprise resource planning system could interfere with our business or operations and could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are in the process of deploying a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. This project requires significant investment of capital and human resources, the re-engineering of many processes of our business and the attention of many employees who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and integration of the new ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated and could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products, provide services, fulfill contractual obligations, file reports with the Securities Exchange Commission in a timely manner and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls environment. Any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the risks of owning real property . We own real property, including the land and buildings at two of our manufacturing locations. The ownership of real property subjects us to risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems and the risk of damages resulting from such contamination; adverse changes in the value of the property due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability act or other requirements; and possible disputes with neighboring owners or others. 17 Our risk management activities may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Although we maintain insurance policies for our business, these policies contain deductibles and limits of coverage. We estimate our liabilities for known claims and unpaid claims and expenses based on information available as well as projections for claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to estimate due to various factors and we may be unable to effectively anticipate or measure potential risks to our company. If we suffer unexpected or uncovered losses, any of our insurance policies or programs are terminated for any reason or are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance policies or that exceed our accruals or that exceed our coverage limits and could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Regulatory, environmental, monetary and other governmental policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are subject to international, federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation and handling of waste. We are also subject to laws relating to occupational health and safety. The operation of manufacturing plants involves a high level of susceptibility in these areas, and there is no assurance that we will not incur material environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities in the future. Moreover, expectations of remediation expenses could be affected by, and potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with, environmental regulations and health and safety laws that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Future remediation technology advances could adversely impact expectations of remediation expenses. Future litigation could impact our financial results and condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be affected by significant future litigation or claims adverse to us. Types of potential litigation cases include product liability, contract, employment-related, labor relations, personal injury or property damage, intellectual property, stockholder claims and claims arising from any injury or damage to persons, property or the environment from hazardous substances used, generated or disposed of in the conduct of our business. Our international operations subject us to additional risks, which risks and costs may differ in each country in which we do business and may cause our profitability to decline. Most of our products are manufactured at our facilities in Canada and Mexico, and we depend on a number of suppliers for raw materials and component parts that are located outside of the U.S., including Asia and Western Europe. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from our operations in Canada and currently derive most of our revenue in the U.S. from products we manufacture in Mexico. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the U.S., and that we may face only to a limited degree in Canada, including: ·building and managing highly experienced foreign workforces and overseeing and ensuring the performance of foreign subcontractors; ·increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; ·additional withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, and tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment; ·imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, many of which differ from those in the U.S.; ·changes in foreign currency exchange rates, principally fluctuations in the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso; ·longer payment cycles for sales in some foreign countries and potential difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable; ·difficulties in repatriating overseas earnings; ·general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate; and ·political unrest, civil disturbances, corruption, crime, war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events. 18 We may be unable to maintain policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business. Our failure to manage these risks could cause us to fail to reap our investments in these markets and could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and increase our costs, thus adversely affecting our international and overall business, financial condition and operating results. Market disruptions caused by domestic or international financial crises could affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs at a reasonable cost and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on credit facilities with our lenders, amongst other avenues, to satisfy our liquidity needs. Disruptions in the domestic or international credit markets or deterioration of the banking industry’s financial condition (such as occurred beginning in 2008), may discourage or prevent our lenders and other lenders from meeting their existing lending commitments, extending the terms of such commitments or agreeing to new commitments, such as for acquisitions or to refinance existing credit facilities. Market disruptions may also limit our ability to issue debt securities in the capital markets. We can provide no assurances that our lenders or any other lenders we may have will meet their existing commitments or that we will be able to access the credit markets in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. Longer term disruptions in the domestic or international capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, reduced financing alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the market stabilizes or until alternative financing can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing other discretionary expenditures. Market disruptions could cause a broad economic downturn that may lead to increased incidence of customers’ failure to pay for services delivered, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Capital market disruptions could result in increased costs related to variable rate debt. As a result, continuation of market disruptions could increase our interest expense and adversely impact our results of operations. Disruption in the capital markets and its actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affects the value of the investments held within our pension plans. Significant declines in the value of the investments held within our pension plans may require us to increase contributions to those plans in order to meet future funding requirements if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future. These trends may also adversely impact our results of operations, net cash flows and financial positions, including our stockholders’ equity. Risks Relating to Our Organization Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, and we take advantage of the “controlled company” exemption to the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies. As a controlled Company, our common stock may be less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price. Because we qualify as a “controlled company” under the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies, we are not required to have a majority of our board of directors be independent, nor are we required to have a compensation committee or an independent nominating function. In light of our status as a controlled company, our board of directors has determined not to have a majority of independent directors or an independent nominating or compensation committee and to have the full board of directors be directly responsible for compensation matters and for nominating members of our board. Accordingly, should the interests of our controlling stockholder differ from those of other stockholders, the other stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies. Our status as a controlled company could make our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price. 19 Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers, preferences and other rights and limitations of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue shares of preferred stock with a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends or distributions on liquidation or dissolution, or that may otherwise adversely affect the voting or other rights of the holders of common stock. Issuances of preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations of the preferred stock, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, even if that change of control might benefit our stockholders. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 generally prohibits a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to the date of the transaction, the board of directors of the corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the number of shares outstanding (a) shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers and (b) shares owned by employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or (iii) on or subsequent to the date of the transaction, the business combination is approved by the board and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock which is not owned by the interested stockholder. Section 203 could delay or prohibit mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts with respect to us and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Your ability to influence corporate decisions may be limited because Provident Pioneer Partners, L.P. owns a controlling percentage of our common stock. Provident Pioneer Partners, L.P., which is controlled by Nathan J. Mazurek, our chief executive officer, president and chairman of the board of directors, beneficially owns approximately 64.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this stock ownership, Provident Pioneer Partners, L.P. and Mr. Mazurek can control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. In addition, as the interests of Provident Pioneer Partners, L.P. and our minority stockholders may not always be the same, this large concentration of voting power may lead to stockholder votes that are inconsistent with the best interests of our minority stockholders or the best interest of us as a whole. Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with Bank of Montreal, Chicago Branch, we are restricted from, among other things, entering into merger agreements or agreements for the sale of any or all of our assets outside the course of ordinary business. As such, even if certain corporate transactions may be approved by our stockholders, Bank of Montreal, Chicago Branch, as the lender under our credit agreement, has final authority to approve or reject certain of our transactions. This could lead to us not being able to effect certain transactions that may be in the best interests of our stockholders or our business. We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires us to conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. 20 In addition, our internal controls will also include those of any company or business that we may acquire in the future. Acquired companies or businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, information and other systems. As a result, our internal controls may become more complex and we may require significantly more resources to ensure they remain effective. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, either in our existing business or in businesses that we may acquire, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Risks Relating to our Common Stock There has been a limited market for our common stock and we cannot ensure investors that an active market for our common stock will be sustained. There has been limited trading in our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common stock will be maintained. Due to the illiquidity of our common stock, the market price may not accurately reflect our relative value. There can be no assurance that an active market for our shares of common stock will develop in the future. Because our common stock is so thinly traded, even limited trading in our shares has in the past, and might in the future, lead to dramatic fluctuations in share price and investors may not be able to liquidate their investment in us at all or at a price that reflects the value of the business. While our common stock became listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market as of September 2013, we cannot assure you that we will maintain compliance with all of the requirements for our common stock to remain listed. Additionally, there can be no assurance that trading of our common stock on such market will be sustained or desirable. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ·technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; ·additions or departures of key personnel, including Nathan J. Mazurek, our chairman, president and chief executive officer; ·sales of our common stock, including management shares; ·limited availability of freely-tradable “unrestricted” shares of our common stock to satisfy purchase orders and demand; ·our ability to execute our business plan; ·operating results that fall below expectations; ·loss of any strategic relationship; ·industry developments; ·economic and other external factors; ·our ability to manage the costs of maintaining adequate internal financial controls and procedures in connection with the acquisition of additional businesses; ·period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and ·announcements of acquisitions. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Our stockholders and the holders of our options and warrants may sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market. The availability of these shares of our common stock for resale in the public market has the potential to cause the supply of our common stock to exceed investor demand, thereby decreasing the price of our common stock. 21 In addition, the fact that our stockholders, option holders and warrant holders can sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the future. As a result, any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. In addition, our credit agreement with Bank of Montreal, Chicago Branch restricts our ability to pay cash dividends. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not currently have research coverage by securities and industry analysts and you should not invest in our common stock in anticipation that we will obtain such coverage. If we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage and if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 