RISK FACTORS Factors Relating to Argentina Political and economic instability in Argentina has affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Both Petrobras Energía Participaciones and Petrobras Energía are Argentine corporations (sociedades anónimas). As of December 31, 2008, with respect to Petrobras Energía, approximately 70% of our total assets, 73% of our net sales, 68% of our combined crude oil and gas production and 62% of our proved oil and gas reserves were located in Argentina. Fluctuations in the Argentine economy and actions adopted by the Argentine government have had and may continue to have a significant impact on Argentine companies, including us. Specifically, we have been affected and may continue to be affected by inflation, interest rates, the value of the peso against foreign currencies, price controls, regulatory policies, business and tax regulations and in general by the political, social and economic scenario in Argentina and in other countries that may affect Argentina. The Argentine economy has experienced significant volatility in recent decades, characterized by periods of low or negative growth, high and variable levels of inflation and currency devaluation. During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. See “Business Overview—Our Principal Market”. The crisis had significant and adverse consequences on our company, including (i) losses derived from the effects of the peso devaluation on our affiliates and our affiliates’ net borrowing position, which primarily was denominated in U.S. dollars, (ii) the impairment of the book value of certain gas areas and tax assets due to material changes in the prospects of our operations, (iii) a decrease in U.S. dollar cash flows due to the imposition of export taxes, (iv) limits on the availability in the financial market to renew our short-term lines of credit and the current portion of our medium and long-term financings at maturity and (v) restrictions on our ability to pass through the effects of inflation to the prices of products sold by us in the domestic market. In 2002, we reported a significant net loss and our liquidity was adversely affected. Within this context and in order to secure compliance with our financial commitments, we reduced our investment plan and reached an agreement with our financial creditors and holders of notes to extend the maturity profile of a substantial portion of our debt, at face value. As a result, capital expenditures in 2002, net of divestments, totaled only P$139 million, a relatively low amount compared to our historical average investment. Although the Argentine economy has largely recovered from the crisis of 2001 and 2002, the current global economic crisis has led to a sudden deceleration of the economy, accompanied by political and social unrest, inflationary and peso depreciation pressures and lack of consumer and investor confidence. Uncertainty remains as to whether and how quickly Argentina may overcome the economic slowdown and regain economic growth, which depends on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors and a stable and relatively low rate of inflation. We cannot provide you with any assurance that future economic, social and political developments in Argentina, over which we have no control, will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to pay our debts at maturity or dividends. The Argentine economy has been adversely affected by economic developments in other markets. Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other markets worldwide. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perceptions of events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and investments in securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred during 2008, and continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners. Furthermore, the Argentine economy has been affected by events in developed economies which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the Argentine financial system and securities markets will not continue to be adversely affected by events in developed countries’ economies or events in other emerging markets. 10 Table of Contents A lack of financing for Argentine companies, whether due to government regulation or market forces, may negatively impact the execution of our strategic business plan. The prospects for Argentine companies of accessing financial markets are limited in terms of the amount of financing available, and the conditions and cost of such financing. The default on the Argentine sovereign debt at the end of 2001, the recent global economic crisis, and the resulting international stock market crash and the insolvency of major financial institutions toward the end of 2008, have all significantly limited the ability of Argentine companies to access international financial markets as they had in the past. Our ability to execute and carry out our strategic business plan depends upon our ability to obtain financing at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. In recent years, we have regularly obtained financing from the private pension fund system in Argentina, which has been a significant purchaser of our debt and shares. However, in November 2008 the Argentine National Congress passed a law eliminating the private pension system, mandating that funds administered by the private Retirement and Pension Funds Administrators (the “AFJP”), be transferred to a new administrator, the National Social Security Administrative Office (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, or “ANSES”). Because the private pension funds had until recently been major institutional investors in the Argentine capital markets, the nationalization of these funds and the transfer of their assets to a state-run administrator has led to a decline in liquidity in the local capital markets, and may further limit the sources of financing for Argentine companies, including us. If we are unable to gain access to international or local financial markets to refinance our indebtedness at reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, we may have to reduce our projected capital expenditures, which, in turn, may negatively affect the implementation of our business plan. Fluctuations in the value of the peso may adversely affect the Argentine economy, our financial condition and the results of operations. The value of the peso has fluctuated significantly in the past and may do so in the future. Since the end of the U.S. dollar-peso parity in January 2002, the peso has fluctuated significantly in value. As a result, the Central Bank has taken several measures to stabilize the exchange rate and preserve its reserves. The marked devaluation of the peso in 2002 had a negative impact on the ability of the Argentine government and Argentine companies to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, led to very high inflation initially and had a negative impact on businesses whose success depends on domestic market demand, including public utilities. The significant peso devaluation during 2002 adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our financial debt and a significant portion of our affiliates’ debt were denominated in U.S. dollars. Before the enactment of the Public Emergency and Foreign Exchange System Reform Law No. 25,562 (the “Public Emergency Law”) in January 2002, our cash flow, generally denominated in U.S. dollars or dollar-adjusted, provided a natural hedge against exchange rate risks. The Argentine regulatory framework after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law (which included the pesification of utility rates, regulatory issues related to the renegotiation of pesified utility rates, new taxes on hydrocarbon exports, and the implementation of regulations to prevent an increase in prices to final users in the domestic market and restrictions on exports), however, limited our ability to hedge the impact of the peso devaluation. 11 Table of Contents If the peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences to our business. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy since it may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account balance and the balance of payments. We are unable to predict whether, and to what extent, the value of the peso may further depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. dollar and how any such fluctuations would affect the demand of our products and services. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not make regulatory changes that prevent or limit us from offsetting the risk derived from our exposure to the U.S. dollar and, if so, what impact these changes will have on our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation may escalate and undermine economic growth in Argentina and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to stimulate economic growth. For example, during 2002, the Argentine consumer price index increased by 41%, and the wholesale price index increased by 118.2%. This inflation reflected both the effect of the peso devaluation on production costs and a significant change in relative prices, which was partially offset by the elimination of rate adjustments and a strong drop in demand as a result of the recession. According to official inflation data published by the National Statistics Institute, in 2003, inflation slowed, with a 3.7% increase in the consumer price index and a 2.0% increase in the wholesale price index. Since 2004, encouraged by the pace of economic growth, the consumer price index increased by 6.1% in 2004, 12.3% in 2005, 9.8% in 2006 and 8.5% in 2007 while the wholesale price index went up 7.9% in 2004, 10.8% in 2005, 7.1% in 2006 and 14.4% in 2007. In 2008, the consumer and wholesale price indexes increased by 7.2% and 0.9%, respectively. In 2009, official price indexes show a slowing of inflation. In spite of these official indicators, alternative measurements have exhibited higher inflationary pressure and a general price level with a more marked dynamics. Uncertainty surrounding future inflation may result in slowed economic activity and reduced growth. A return to a high inflation environment would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the peso devaluation, with negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment. Sustained inflation in Argentina, without a corresponding increase in the price paid by consumers for our products in the local market would have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The variability of inflation in Argentina makes it impossible to estimate with a reasonable degree of certainty how our activities and results of operations will be affected in the future. Exchange controls in Argentina may impair our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations and pay dividends. After December 2001, Argentine authorities implemented a number of monetary and currency exchange control measures that included restrictions on the withdrawal of funds deposited with banks, the obligation to deposit with the Argentine Central Bank foreign currency from exports, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad as well as restrictions relating to the servicing of foreign debt. The Central Bank has since issued a number of regulations aimed at gradually normalizing the domestic exchange market and, as a result, most restrictions in connection with the repayment of foreign creditors and the payment of dividends to foreign shareholders have been lifted. Nevertheless, certain exchange controls, including those imposed on foreign loans to the Argentine private sector, remain in place, with related requirements concerning the term of such loans, their denomination and transferability. See “Item 3. Exchange Rates—Exchange controls,” and “Item 5. Description of Indebtedness.” As a result of the global economic crisis and political and economic instability in Argentina, the Argentine Government may impose exchange controls and other related measures. If the Argentine Government imposes exchange controls and other restrictions on the transfer of funds, we may be unable to make principal or interest payments on our debt when they become due or to pay dividends. 12 Table of Contents Limits on exports of hydrocarbons and related oil products have affected and may continue to affect our results of operations. In recent periods, Argentina has faced difficulties in satisfying its domestic energy needs. As a result, the government has enacted a series of measures limiting the export of hydrocarbons and related oil products, which has inhibited our ability to profit from higher prices for these commodities on the international market, hindered us from offsetting sustained increases in costs endemic to the energy industry, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. In April 2004, in order to facilitate the recovery of natural gas prices, the Secretary of Energy entered into an agreement with natural gas producers requiring them to sell a specified amount of gas in the local regulated market. During 2006, the Secretary of Energy required producers to redirect gas earmarked for export to instead supply local thermal power plants and gas distribution companies. In January 2007, the Secretary of Energy confirmed that the ability to export hydrocarbons would be subject to the satisfaction of domestic needs and that exports sales would have to be authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Secretary of Energy. These measures prevent us from benefiting from the higher margins offered by the export market. In 2007, upon the expiration of the aforementioned agreement, the Argentine government and producers signed a new agreement effective until 2011 aimed at securing the domestic supply of gas. Under these agreements, temporary limits on certain natural gas exports have been imposed to avoid a crisis in the local supply of natural gas, depriving us of the higher margins offered by export prices. During 2005 and 2006, the Secretary of Energy requested producers to redirect gas for export to supply thermal plants and gas distribution companies. This decision limited our total gas export volumes by a daily average of approximately 110 thousand cubic meters and 339 thousand cubic meters, respectively. In 2007 and 2008, our total gas export volume was limited by a daily average of about 420 thousand cubic meters and 31 thousand cubic meters, respectively. Similarly to restrictions imposed on the export of natural gas, pursuant to Resolution No. 1679/04, enacted in December 2004, producers must obtain the approval of the Argentine government prior to exporting crude oil or diesel oil. To obtain this approval, exporters must demonstrate that they have either satisfied local demand requirements or have granted the domestic market the opportunity to acquire oil or diesel oil under terms similar to current domestic market prices and, in the case of diesel oil, they must also demonstrate, if applicable, that commercial terms offered to the domestic market are at least equal to those offered to their own gas station network. Furthermore, in December 2006, pursuant to Resolution No. 1338/06, the Secretary of Energy extended these regulations to the export of gasoline, fuel oil and fuel oil mixtures, diesel oil, aero kerosene, jet fuel, lubricants, asphalts, coke and by-products for use in the petrochemical industry. In response to an increase in fuel prices in the domestic market, in January 2008 the Argentine government temporarily prohibited the exports of gasoline and diesel oil until the domestic market was fully supplied at the prices in force on October 31, 2007. In the future, the extension of these restrictions could significantly and adversely affect the profitability of our operations, preventing us from capturing the upside of export prices, and negatively impacting the total volume of refined products sold in the domestic market, due to our need to manage crude oil volumes processed in accordance with our storage capacity. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not increase export restrictions on hydrocarbons and related oil products. If it were to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Export taxes on our products have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, the profitability of our operations. In order to discourage exports, secure domestic supply and fix a reference price for crude between producers and refineries, on March 1, 2002, the Argentine government imposed a withholding tax on exports of hydrocarbons, initially lasting five years. 13 Table of Contents This tax framework prevented us from benefiting from significant increases in international prices for oil, oil related products and natural gas, hindered us from offsetting sustained increases in costs endemic to the energy industry, and materially affected our competitiveness and results of operations. Effective November 2007, the Ministry of Economy and Production adopted a more onerous method for calculating withholding taxes on exports of crude oil and certain oil by-products. In case of crude oil, under this method, when the international price for crude oil exceeds US$60.90 per barrel, the price the producer receives is capped at US$42 per barrel. At prices between US$45 and US$60.90 per barrel, the producer pays a withholding tax of 45%. This tax regime has had a negative impact on our Refining and Distribution business unit, particularly on exports of paraffins, other heavy products and gasoline. See “Item 5. Operating and financial review and prospects—Factors affecting our consolidated results of operations—Regulations of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Withholding Taxes on Exports”. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will reduce current export tax rates or will not increase them further. We do not know the government’s future intentions in regard to export taxes. As a consequence, we cannot predict the impact that any changes may have on our results of operations. Price controls have affected, and may continue to affect, our results of operations and capital expenditures. The Argentine government has imposed a series of regulations on the energy sector to limit the prices charged to end users in an effort to reduce the inflationary impact of high international commodity prices and to guarantee domestic supply. These regulations have had a material adverse impact on our results of operations. See “Regulation of our Businesses”. a) Natural gas and electricity Pursuant to the Public Emergency Law, Petrobras Energía was precluded from increasing the price of gas and electricity sold in the domestic market. This limitation, within the context of the peso devaluation and subsequent inflation, resulted in a substantial change in the economic and financial balance of our energy and gas-related businesses, significantly affecting our operating results and prospects. In April 2004, Petrobras Energía and other gas producers, entered into an agreement with the Argentine government that provided for a schedule of gradual increases in gas prices in the domestic market that would culminate in a complete deregulation of the wellhead price of natural gas in 2007. Since September 1, 2005, wellhead prices have been deregulated for sales to electricity generation and gas distribution companies supplying industrial clients directly, with the Gas Electronic Market (Mercado Electrónico del Gas) starting operations for gas surplus spot transactions. In 2007, upon expiration of the aforementioned agreement, the Argentine government and producers signed a New Natural Gas Producers Agreement. This new agreement modified the prescribed extent of the total deregulation of wellhead prices of gas, adopting a schedule of defined prices, whereby the 2005 price remains unchanged for the residential sector and an annual average increase of approximately 6.5% is established for the Compressed Natural Gas (“CNG”), electricity generation, and industrial sectors, although the price for the latter remains freely negotiable. This new resolution has already come into effect by sector according to schedule; the residential supply commitment is the last one to expire in the year 2011. This agreement provides for minimum supply requirements that gas producers must supply to the domestic market and electricity generators. With respect to electricity generation, with the enactment of the Public Emergency Law, the Argentine government implemented the pesification of dollar-denominated prices in the Wholesale Electricity Market (“WEM”), and set a price cap on gas supplied for electric power generation. This regulatory change imposed a deviation from the marginal cost system previously in force, and forced generators to set prices based on the price of natural gas, regardless of the fuel actually used in generation activities. In December 2004, the Secretary of Energy agreed to approve successive seasonal electricity price increases to rates that would at least cover total monomic costs by November 2006 (to include compensation for actual output at spot market rates, or energy, plus compensation for capacity placed at the disposal of the spot market, or power capacity). This commitment has not been carried out in practice. In November 2008 partial adjustments to seasonal prices were approved, applicable to the period between November 2008 and April 2009, but the adjusted prices still fail to cover costs actually incurred in the generation system, as a whole. 14 Table of Contents In addition, the Secretary of Energy committed to pay for energy at the marginal price obtained in the spot market and to pay for power capacity at the U.S. dollar values that were in effect prior to the enactment of the Public Emergency Law, once the new generation capacity is brought into the system under the Fund for the Investment Needed to Increase the Supply of Electricity in the Wholesale Market (Fondo para las Inversiones Necesarias que permitan incrementar la oferta de energía eléctrica en el Mercado Eléctrico Mayorista) (“FONINVEMEM”) plan. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Analysis of Consolidated Results of Operations—Factors Affecting our Consolidated Results of Operations—Regulation of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Price Controls and Restrictions on Exports—Electricity Generation”. Through these combined measures, the Argentine government is expected to gradually restore economic and financial balance to the natural gas and electricity sectors. Our results and capital expenditure plans, however, may be adversely affected if (i) the agreed schedule of increases in natural gas prices or the commitments with respect to electricity price increases fail to be fully implemented by the Argentine government or (ii) the government applies its regulatory emergency authority or adopts other regulations to control prices or supply. b) Downstream margins The downstream business in Argentina has been and may continue to be subject to extensive regulatory changes that affect prices and profitability, and these changes have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. Downstream margins in Argentina have significantly declined since the enactment of the Public Emergency Law. Since 2002, the Argentine government has actively intervened in the domestic fuel market to ensure full supply and to limit increases in the price of gasoline and diesel oil at the retail level that would have resulted from: (i) higher costs due to increases in crude oil international prices (ii) the peso devaluation and (iii) domestic inflation. During 2007 and 2008, some flexibility was reintroduced to the domestic market that allowed for gradual increases in fuel prices, which facilitated a partial recovery in marketing margins. The Argentine fuel market has steadily grown over the last several years. To secure domestic supply, in the face of growing demand and the inability of Argentine refineries to significantly increase production levels, in 2006 the Secretary of Domestic Trade promulgated Resolution No. 25/2006, which required refining companies to supply all diesel oil market demand with a baseline equal to the same month of the prior year’s demand, plus an estimated market variation. In order to comply with this resolution, Petrobras Energía was required to import 202 thousand cubic meters of diesel oil in 2008, 208 thousand cubic meters in 2007 and 85 thousand cubic meters in 2006. Considering the differential between import and retail diesel oil prices, we recognized losses of P$151 million, P$106 million and P$38 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2008, under Resolution No. 121/2008 issued by the Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services, we were able to import diesel oil at domestic market prices under the Total Energy Program (“PET”), due to a provision whereby the Treasury subsidized the cost of imports. This subsidization significantly mitigated the losses we would have otherwise had to bear under the supply requirements of Resolution No. 25/2006. In the future, subject to the production capacity of our plants and the real market growth levels, we may be required to continue importing diesel oil pursuant to Resolution No. 25/2006, with a probable adverse effect upon our results of operations, as we do not have any assurance that the government will subsidize the cost of these programs in the future, as it did while Resolution No. 121/2008 was effective. We cannot assure you that the Argentine government will not make further regulatory changes that will adversely affect our refining margins. See “Factors Affecting Our Consolidated Results of Operations—Regulation of the Energy Industry in Argentina—Price Controls and Restrictions on Exports—Downstream Margins”. 15 Table of Contents The Argentine government and our affiliated utility companies are in the process of renegotiating utility contracts, and the recoverability of our investments in these affiliates depends on the successful completion of these negotiations. The macroeconomic state of the country after the enactment of the Public Emergency Law impacted the economic and financial condition of utility companies in Argentina. The combined effect of (i) the peso devaluation, (ii) the pesification of rates on a one-to-one basis and (iii) financial debts primarily denominated in foreign currency, adversely affected the utility companies’ financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy financial obligations and pay dividends. Although some of these utility companies have been successful in restructuring their indebtedness, their return to financial stability and profitability on a long-term basis depends on a successful negotiation of tariff increases with the Argentine government. The Utilities Contract Renegotiation and Analysis Committee (Unidad de Renegociación y Análisis de Contratos de Servicios Públicos) (“UNIREN”) (the agency created by the Argentine government to, among other things, provide assistance in the utility renegotiation process, execute comprehensive or partial agreements with utility companies and submit regulatory projects related to provisional rate adjustments) is currently in the process of renegotiating contracts with our affiliates Edesur S.A. (“Edesur”) and Transportadora de Gas del Sur S.A. (“TGS”). These discussions are in different stages. See “Business Overview—Gas and Energy—Gas Transportation—TGS—Regulated Energy Segment” and “Business Overview—Gas and Energy— Electricity—Electricity Distribution- Edesur” and “Regulation of Our Businesses—Argentine Regulatory Framework—Natural Gas and Electricity”. We cannot assure you that these discussions will ultimately result in a level of tariff increases sufficient for our affiliated utility companies to return their regulated business to financial stability and profitability in the near future or on a long-term basis. Factors Relating to Our Business Substantial or extended declines in the prices of crude oil and related oil products may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from sales of crude oil and related oil products. We do not and will not have control over factors affecting international prices for crude oil and related oil products. These factors include: political developments in crude oil producing regions; the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other crude oil producing nations to set and maintain crude oil production levels and prices; global supply and demand for crude oil; competition from other energy sources; government regulations; weather conditions and global conflicts or acts of terrorism. Changes in crude oil prices generally result in changes in prices for related oil products. International oil prices have fluctuated widely over the last ten years. In 2008, oil average prices reached a high for the seventh year in a row, marked, however, by the sudden end of this upward trend. Oil prices were highly volatile. The benchmark West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”) crude reached a high of US$145 per barrel in July 2008, but by the end of the year and in line with the global economic crisis, such prices experienced a clear and steep decline to below US$40, with a resulting drop in the price for oil by-products. As of December 31, 2008, the WTI closed at US$44.6 per barrel, 54% lower than the price as of the same date in 2007. During 2008, the average WTI was US$99.6 per barrel, compared to US$72.3 and US$66.0 in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Substantial or extended declines in international prices for crude oil and related oil products may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the value of our proved reserves. In addition, significant decreases in the prices for crude oil and related oil products may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserve estimates in the future. 16 Table of Contents Our crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates involve some degree of uncertainty and may prove to be incorrect over time. The proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this annual report account for our estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions (i.e. with prices and costs as of the estimate date). Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are those that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. DeGolyer and MacNaughton, international technical consultants, audited 70% of our total reserves as of December 31, 2008. See “Business Overview—Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Reserves”. Crude oil and natural gas reserves are reviewed annually taking into consideration many factors, including: • new production or drilling activities; • field reviews; • the addition of new reserves from discoveries or extensions of existing fields; • changes in the international prices of oil and gas; • the application of improved recovery techniques; and • new economic conditions. Proved reserve estimates could be materially different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, and downward revisions of our estimates could impact our future results of operations and business plan, including our level of capital expenditures. We may not be able to replace our oil and gas reserves and this may have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, we have experienced a decline in reserves and production. The possibility of replacing our crude oil and gas reserves in the future is dependent on our ability to access new reserves, both through successful exploration and reserve acquisitions. We consider exploration, which carries inherent risks and uncertainties, our main vehicle for future growth and reserves replacement. We have limited capital resources to implement an ambitious capital expenditure program. Moreover, we face strong competition in bidding for new production blocks, especially those blocks with the most attractive crude oil and natural gas reserves. Without successful exploration activities or reserve acquisitions, our proved reserves will decline as our oil and gas production will be forced to rely on our current portfolio of assets. Further decline in reserves and production may limit the integration of our upstream and downstream operations, since maximizing the crude oil processing capacity of our refineries would require us to obtain a greater supply of our crude oil from third parties, including imports. We cannot guarantee that our exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in significant additional reserves. If we are not able to successfully find, develop or acquire additional reserves, our reserves and therefore our production may continue to decline and, consequently, this may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our operations could be adversely affected by events beyond our control. Our activities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed, interrupted or canceled as a result of weather conditions, mechanical difficulties, shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment, coercive actions and compliance with governmental requirements, or other events that could adversely impact our costs of production, results of operation and financial condition. For example, from March 9, 2007 to April 10, 2007, operations in Block 18, in Ecuador were curtailed as a result of coercive actions taken by local communities. During this period, cumulative oil production decreased by approximately 305,000 barrels of oil equivalent in our participation. Our activities may be adversely affected by events in countries in which we do business. Our operations are concentrated in Latin America, a region that has experienced significant economic, social, political and regulatory volatility. In recent periods, many governments in Latin America have taken steps to assert greater control or increase their share of revenues from the energy sector, spurred by soaring oil and gas prices and nationalist politics. See “Regulation of our Businesses—Regulatory Framework outside of Argentina—Petroleum and Gas”. These risks are evidenced by changes in business conditions that we have experienced in Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador. Venezuela In 2006, the Venezuelan government took a majority stake in all hydrocarbon operations in that country that were the subject of operating agreements entered into between 1992 and 1997 by mandating that such operating agreements be converted into mixed-ownership companies. As a result of this conversion, four of Petrobras Energía’s pre-existing operating agreements were converted into mixed-ownership companies. The conditions imposed under the new operating agreements had an adverse impact on the recoverability of our assets in Venezuela. In light of this new contractual framework, as of December 31, 2005, we recognized impairment charges of P$424 million to adjust the book value of our assets in Venezuela to their estimated recoverable value. The recoverability of these investments is highly sensitive to crude oil price volatility, to economic, social and regulatory changes in Venezuela and, particularly, to the decisions made by management of the mixed-ownership companies. As a result of the aforementioned variables, in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recorded writedowns of P$154 million, P$33 million and P$186 million, respectively, related to our assets in Venezuela. For more detail on the conversion into mixed-ownership companies and regulations imposed by the Venezuelan government, see “Item 4. Oil and Gas Exploration and Production—Production—Production Outside of Argentina—Venezuela” Bolivia In May 2006, the Bolivian government enacted Supreme Decree No. 28,701, which provided, among other things, for the nationalization of hydrocarbon resources in Bolivia. This decree mandated that as of May 1, 2006, oil companies had to deliver all property related to hydrocarbon production for sale to the national operator, Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos (“YPFB”). In addition, this decree provided that the Bolivian state would recover full participation in the entire oil and gas production chain and to that end provided for the nationalization of the shares of stock necessary for YPFB to have at least 50% plus one of the shares in a number of companies, including our affiliate Petrobras Bolivia Refinación S.A., in which we had a 49% interest, in partnership with Petrobras, which held a 51% interest. 18 Table of Contents Pursuant to the terms of the contract between Petrobras Energía and YPFB, we, through our branch in Bolivia, agreed to conduct, at our own expense and on our own account, exploration and production activities in the Colpa Caranda area on behalf of YPFB. In addition, in June 2007, we signed an agreement, through our subsidiary Petrobras Energía Internacional S.A., under which we sold our interest in Petrobras Bolivia Refinación S.A. to YPFB. Ecuador In April 2006, the Ecuadorian government approved the Law Amending the Hydrocarbon Law (“Law 42”), which assigned the Ecuadorian state a share of at least 50% of the revenues resulting from any increase in the average monthly sales price of Ecuadorian crude oil, based upon the average monthly sales price for such oil as of the execution date of the relevant agreements, stated in constant values as of the month of settlement. In October 2007, the Ecuadorian President issued an amendment to the regulations applying Law 42, further increasing the Ecuadorian government’s share of revenues from increases in the price of crude oil to 99%, reducing the oil companies’ share to 1%. EcuadorTLC S.A. and Petroecuador, the national oil company of Ecuador, adopted significant opposing interpretations as to the applicability and scope of Law 42 in connection with revenues from the Palo Azul operating agreement in which the Ecuadorian state’s share in extraordinary revenues resulting from any increase in crude oil prices was already established. The effect of these regulatory changes has been a material modification of the conditions set forth at the time of execution of our participation agreements, adversely affecting the valuation of our projects in Ecuador, and negatively impacting our assessment of recoverability. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2007, we recorded an impairment allowance of P$759 million to write down the book value of our Ecuadorian assets to their probable recoverable value. During 2008, EcuadorTLC S.A. and the Ecuadorian state conducted negotiations aimed at designing a business framework that secures the sustained development of operations while focusing on long-term profitability and social responsibility. Within this framework, the parties agreed to resolve their previously conflicting interpretation of the applicability of Law 42. Under this agreement, EcuadorTLC S.A. made a payment in the amount of US$44 million, which was considered a settlement of any difference arising from the application of the Law 42 until the execution date of the Amendment Agreements mentioned below, whereupon the Tax Equity Law became effective. In October 31, 2008 EcuadorTLC S.A. and Petroecuador signed Amendment Agreements which, among other things, provided terms and conditions for the exploitation of Block 18 for one year. During such period, negotiations will be conducted as to whether or not such agreements will be converted to a new contractual modality. Under the Amendment Agreements, the Ecuadorian state’s interest in the Pata and the Palo Azul fields has increased to 40% and 60%, respectively. In addition, upon execution of the Amendment Agreements the Tax Equity Law will be applicable whereby the Ecuadorian State receives 70% of revenues from sales at prices over a new base price of US$45.43 per barrel. Furthermore, on December 31, 2008, Petrobras Energía Ecuador and Petroecuador signed a Termination Agreement in connection with Block 31 Participation Agreement, under which Block 31 was returned to the Ecuadorian State. These measures, and any other similar measures taken in the future by governments in countries where we conduct business, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We could be subject to organized labor action. Many of our operations are highly labor-intensive and require a significant number of workers. The sectors in which we operate are largely unionized. We have experienced organized work disruptions and stoppages in the past, frequently due to strikes by employees of contractors we employ. We cannot assure you that we will not experience such disruptions or work stoppages in the future, and any such action could adversely affect our business and revenues. During 2007 and 2008 unionized employees went on strike over salary increases, adversely affecting our operations. In 2008, in the Austral basin in Argentina, the pace of production slowed as a result of the labor strike held by our contractor’s employees throughout May 2008, with an adverse impact on production levels in subsequent months. We cannot predict what actions unionized personnel might take in the future. Furthermore, we do not maintain insurance coverage for business interruptions, including business interruptions caused by labor action. Strikes, picketing or other types of conflict with the unionized personnel could curtail our operations and cause higher costs, having an adverse effect on our results in the long-term. Our operations run the risk of causing environmental damage, and any changes in environmental laws may increase our operational costs. Some of our operations are subject to environmental risks that may arise unexpectedly and result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. We have not incurred any material pollution liabilities as a result of operations to date. We cannot assure you that we will not incur additional costs related to the environment in the future, which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation both in Argentina and in the other countries in which we operate. Local, provincial and national authorities in Argentina and the other countries where we operate are moving towards more stringent enforcement of environmental laws, which may require us to incur higher compliance costs. We cannot predict what additional environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or the potential effects on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents 