ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis and worldwide economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession could reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower oil and natural gas prices. Crude oil prices have declined from record levels in July 2008 of approximately $145 per barrel to approximately $40 per barrel as of February 20, 2009 and natural gas prices have also experienced sharp declines. This decline in commodity prices, along with difficult conditions in the credit markets, has had a negative impact on our business, and this impact could continue or worsen. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas prices. Demand for our services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices could depress the immediate levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, these factors may adversely impact our statement of financial position if they are determined to cause a further impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets or of our long-lived assets or our assets held for sale. The financial crisis may also adversely affect the ability of shipyards to meet scheduled deliveries of our newbuild and other shipyard projects. The global financial and credit crisis may negatively impact our business and financial condition. The continued credit crisis and related instability in the global financial system has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The credit crisis has impacted lenders participating in our credit facilities and our customers, and further negative impacts may cause them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Our business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices and other factors. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity since customers' expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. Also, increased competition for customers' drilling budgets could come from, among other areas, land-based energy markets in Africa, Russia, Western Asian countries, the Middle East, the U.S. and elsewhere. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments also affect customers' drilling campaigns. Worldwide military, political and economic events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to do so in the future. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including the following: • worldwide demand for oil and gas including economic activity in the U.S. and other energy-consuming markets; • the ability of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; • advances in exploration and development technology; and • the worldwide military and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the U.S., or elsewhere. Our industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which has a dominant market share. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Intense price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig availability and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. Our industry has historically been cyclical and is impacted by oil and gas price levels and volatility. There have been periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates, followed by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. Since the onset of the worldwide financial and credit crisis and economic downturn, we have experienced weakness in our Midwater Floater and Jackup markets. We may be required to idle rigs or enter into lower dayrate contracts in response to market conditions. - 14 - During prior periods of high utilization and dayrates, industry participants have increased the supply of rigs by ordering the construction of new units. This has typically resulted in an oversupply of drilling units and has caused a subsequent decline in utilization and dayrates, sometimes for extended periods of time. There are numerous high-specification rigs and jackups under contract for construction and several mid-water semisubmersibles are being upgraded to enhance their operating capability. The entry into service of these new and upgraded units will increase supply and could curtail a strengthening, or trigger a reduction, in dayrates as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any further increase in construction of new drilling units would likely exacerbate the negative impact on utilization and dayrates. Lower utilization and dayrates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain classes of our drilling rigs or our goodwill balance if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying values of these rigs, goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable. Our shipyard projects and operations are subject to delays and cost overruns. We have committed to a total of ten deepwater newbuild rig projects and the Sedco 706 rig upgrade. We also have a variety of other more limited shipyard projects at any given time. These shipyard projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any such construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: • shipyard availability; • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • work stoppages; • client acceptance delays; • weather interference or storm damage; • unanticipated cost increases; and • difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals. These factors may contribute to cost variations and delays in the delivery of our upgraded and newbuild units and other rigs undergoing shipyard projects. Delays in the delivery of these units would result in delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause customers to terminate or shorten the term of the drilling contract for the rig pursuant to applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, if at all. Our operations also rely on a significant supply of capital and consumable spare parts and equipment to maintain and repair our fleet. We also rely on the supply of ancillary services, including supply boats and helicopters. We have experienced increased delivery times from vendors due to increased drilling activity worldwide and the increase in construction and upgrade projects and have also experienced a tightening in the availability of ancillary services. Shortages in materials, delays in the delivery of necessary spare parts, equipment or other materials, or the unavailability of ancillary services could negatively impact our future operations and result in increases in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. Our drilling contracts may be terminated due to a number of events. Certain of our contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of an early termination payment. Such payments may not, however, fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Contracts also customarily provide for either automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer typically without the payment of any termination fee, under various circumstances such as non-performance, as a result of downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or sustained periods of downtime due to force majeure events. Many of these events are beyond our control. During periods of depressed market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our clients seeking to repudiate their contracts, including through claims of non-performance. Our customers' ability to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts with us may also be negatively impacted by the credit crisis and the economic downturn. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if contracts are suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, it could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The anticipated benefits of moving our principal executive offices to Switzerland may not be realized, and difficulties in connection with moving our principal executive offices could have an adverse effect on us. We are in the process of relocating our principal executive offices from the Cayman Islands and Houston, Texas to Vernier, Switzerland. Initially we expect that 14 of our officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, will be located at our new principal executive offices, along with related support staff. We may face significant challenges in relocating our executive offices to a different country, including difficulties in retaining and attracting officers, key personnel and other employees and challenges in maintaining principal executive offices in a country different from the country where other employees, including corporate support staff, are located. Employees may be uncertain about their future roles within our organization following the completion of the Redomestication Transaction. Management may also be required to devote substantial time to the Redomestication Transaction and related matters, which could otherwise be devoted to focusing on ongoing business operations and other initiatives and opportunities. In addition, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate from the Redomestication Transaction. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. - 15 - Our non-U.S. operations involve additional risks not associated with our U.S. operations. We operate in various regions throughout the world, which may expose us to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: • terrorist acts, war, piracy and civil disturbances; • expropriation or nationalization of equipment; and • the inability to repatriate income or capital. We are protected to some extent against loss of capital assets, but generally not loss of revenue, from most of these risks through indemnity provisions in our drilling contracts. Our assets are generally not insured against risk of loss due to perils such as terrorist acts, civil unrest, expropriation, nationalization and acts of war. Many governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our non-U.S. contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in certain countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling units, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and gas exploration and development and taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel. We are also subject to OFAC and other U.S. laws and regulations governing our international operations. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors have proposed or adopted divestment and other initiatives regarding investments (including, with respect to state governments, by state retirement systems) in companies that do business with countries that have been designated as state sponsors of terrorism by the U.S. State Department. We have a minority interest in a Libyan joint venture that operates to a limited extent in Syria, which has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. State Department. Our internal compliance program has identified a potential OFAC compliance issue involving the shipment of goods by a freight forwarder through Iran, another country that has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. State Department. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook–Regulatory Matters." Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to sanctions and export restrictions, may subject us to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions or seizures of assets. Potential investors could view our minority interest in our Libyan joint venture and any potential violations of OFAC regulations negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our shares. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries in their countries. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil or gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil companies and may continue to do so. A substantial portion of our drilling contracts are partially payable in local currency. Those amounts may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to either temporary blocking or other difficulties converting to U.S. dollars. Excess amounts of local currency may be exposed to the risk of currency exchange losses. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. A change in applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations could result in a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings and such change could be significant to our financial results. One of the income tax treaties that we rely upon is currently in the process of being renegotiated. This renegotiation will likely result in a change in the terms of the treaty that is adverse to our tax structure, which in turn would increase our effective tax rate, and such increase could be material. We expect to take certain steps to mitigate any such potential negative impact. We may not be able to fully, or partially, mitigate any negative impact of this treaty renegotiation or any other future changes in treaties that we rely upon. Tax legislative proposals intending to eliminate some perceived tax advantages of companies that have legal domiciles outside the U.S. but have certain U.S. connections have repeatedly been introduced in the U.S. Congress. Recent examples include, but are not limited to, legislative proposals that would broaden the circumstances in which a non-U.S. company would be considered a U.S. resident and proposals that could override certain tax treaties and limit treaty benefits on certain payments by U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. affiliates. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could result in fines, criminal penalties, drilling contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. In June 2007, GlobalSantaFe's management retained outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation of its Nigerian and West African operations, focusing on brokers who handled customs matters for its affiliates operating in those jurisdictions and whether those brokers have fully complied with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and local laws. GlobalSantaFe commenced its investigation following announcements by other oilfield service companies that they were independently investigating the FCPA implications of certain actions taken by third parties in respect of customs matters in connection with their operations in Nigeria, as well as another company's announced settlement implicating a third party handling customs matters in Nigeria. In each case, the customs broker - 16 - was reported to be Panalpina Inc., which GlobalSantaFe used to obtain temporary import permits for its rigs operating offshore Nigeria. GlobalSantaFe voluntarily disclosed its internal investigation to the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") and the SEC and, at their request, expanded its investigation to include the activities of its customs brokers in other West African countries and the activities of Panalpina Inc. worldwide. The investigation is focusing on whether the brokers have fully complied with the requirements of their contracts, local laws and the FCPA. In late November 2007, GlobalSantaFe received a subpoena from the SEC for documents related to its investigation. In this connection, the SEC advised GlobalSantaFe that it had issued a formal order of investigation. After the completion of the Merger, outside counsel began formally reporting directly to the audit committee of our board of directors. Our legal representatives are keeping the DOJ and SEC apprised of the scope and details of their investigation and producing relevant information in response to their requests. On July 25, 2007, our legal representatives met with the DOJ in response to a notice we received requesting such a meeting regarding our engagement of Panalpina Inc. for freight forwarding and other services in the U.S. and abroad. The DOJ informed us that it is conducting an investigation of alleged FCPA violations by oil service companies who used Panalpina Inc. and other brokers in Nigeria and other parts of the world. We developed an investigative plan, which has continued to be amended, to review and produce relevant and responsive information requested by the DOJ and SEC. The investigation was expanded to include one of our agents for Nigeria. This investigation and the legacy GlobalSantaFe investigation are being conducted by outside counsel who reports directly to the audit committee of our board of directors. Our outside counsel has coordinated their efforts with the DOJ and the SEC with respect to the implementation of our investigative plan, including keeping the DOJ and SEC apprised of the scope and details of the investigation and producing relevant information in response to their requests. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these investigations, the total costs to be incurred in completing the investigations, the potential impact on personnel, the effect of implementing any further measures that may be necessary to ensure full compliance with applicable laws or to what extent, if at all, we could be subject to fines, sanctions or other penalties. Our investigation includes a review of amounts paid to and by customs brokers in connection with the obtaining of permits for the temporary importation of vessels and the clearance of goods and materials. These permits and clearances are necessary in order for us to operate our vessels in certain jurisdictions. There is a risk that we may not be able to obtain import permits or renew temporary importation permits in West African countries, including Nigeria, in a manner that complies with the FCPA. As a result, we may not have the means to renew temporary importation permits for rigs located in the relevant jurisdictions as they expire or to send goods and equipment into those jurisdictions, in which event we may be forced to terminate the pending drilling contracts and relocate the rigs or leave the rigs in these countries and risk permanent importation issues, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, termination of drilling contracts could result in damage claims by customers. Our labor costs and the operating restrictions under which we operate could increase as a result of collective bargaining negotiations and changes in labor laws and regulations. Some of our employees, most of whom work in Nigeria, the U.K., Egypt and Norway, are represented by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, some of our contracted labor work under collective bargaining agreements. Many of these represented individuals are working under agreements that are subject to ongoing salary negotiation in 2009. These negotiations could result in higher personnel expenses, other increased costs or increased operating restrictions. Additionally, the unions in the U.K. have sought an interpretation of the application of the Working Time Regulations to the offshore sector. The Employment Appeal Tribunal (the "Tribunal") has issued its decision in favor of the unions and held, in part, that offshore workers are entitled to another 14 days of annual leave. We have appealed in the first instance to the Tribunal. Oral arguments on the appeal have been held but no decision has been issued. The application of the Working Time Regulations to the offshore sector could result in higher labor costs and could undermine our ability to obtain a sufficient number of skilled workers in the U.K. Our business involves numerous operating hazards. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling of oil and gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punch-throughs, craterings, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. In particular, the Gulf of Mexico area is subject to hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis, and our drilling rigs in the region may be exposed to damage or total loss by these storms (some of which may not be covered by insurance). The occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury to or death of rig personnel. We are also subject to personal injury and other claims by rig personnel as a result of our drilling operations. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services, or personnel shortages. In addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and gas companies. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These are risks associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control of or redrill the well and associated pollution. However, there can be no assurance that these clients will be financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. We maintain insurance coverage for property damage, occupational injury and illness, and general and marine third-party liabilities. We generally have no coverage for named storms in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and war perils worldwide. Also, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. - 17 - We maintain large self-insured deductibles for damage to our offshore drilling equipment and third-party liabilities. With respect to hull and machinery we generally maintain a $125 million deductible per occurrence, subject to a $250 million annual aggregate deductible. In the event that the $250 million annual aggregate deductible has been exceeded, the hull and machinery deductible becomes $10 million per occurrence. However, in the event of a total loss or a constructive total loss of a drilling unit, then such loss is fully covered by our insurance with no deductible. For general and marine third-party liabilities we generally maintain a $10 million per occurrence deductible on personal injury liability for crew claims ($5 million for non-crew claims) and a $5 million per occurrence deductible on third-party property damage. We also self-insure the primary $50 million of liability limits in excess of the $5 million and $10 million per occurrence deductibles described in the prior sentence. Generally, our turnkey drilling contracts include provisions that limit ADTI's liability associated with well blowouts to $50 million. We self-insure coverage for expenses to ADTI and CMI related to well control and redrill liability for well blowouts. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a client, it could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The amount of our insurance may be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Our insurance coverage will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. Our coverage includes annual aggregate policy limits. As a result, we retain the risk through self-insurance for any losses in excess of these limits. We do not carry insurance for loss of revenue, and certain other claims may also not be reimbursed by insurance carriers. Any such lack of reimbursement may cause us to incur substantial costs. In addition, we could decide to retain substantially more risk through self-insurance in the future. Moreover, no assurance can be made that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. As of February 3, 2009, all of the rigs that we owned or operated were covered by existing insurance policies. A loss of a major tax dispute or a successful tax challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. We are a Swiss corporation that operates through our various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between the countries in which we operate. Our income taxes are based upon the applicable tax laws and tax rates in effect in the countries in which we operate and earn income as well as upon our operating structures in these countries. Our income tax returns are subject to review and examination. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries; or if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure; or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, particularly in the U.S., Norway or Brazil, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our earnings and cash flows from operations could be materially adversely affected. For example, there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. (or maintaining a permanent establishment under an applicable treaty), so we cannot be certain that the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") will not contend successfully that we or any of our key subsidiaries were or are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. (or, when applicable, maintained or maintains a permanent establishment in the U.S.). If we or any of our key subsidiaries were considered to have been engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. (when applicable, through a permanent establishment), we could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of our earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business during the period in which this was considered to have occurred, in which case our effective tax rate on worldwide earnings for that period could increase substantially, and our earnings and cash flows from operations for that period could be adversely affected. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook–Tax Matters." Failure to retain key personnel could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business worldwide. Over the last few years, competition for the labor required for drilling operations, including for turnkey drilling and drilling management services businesses and construction projects, intensified as the number of rigs activated, added to worldwide fleets or under construction increased, leading to shortages of qualified personnel in the industry and creating upward pressure on wages and higher turnover. We may experience a reduction in the experience level of our personnel as a result of any increased turnover, which could lead to higher downtime and more operating incidents, which in turn could decrease revenues and increase costs. In response to these historical labor market conditions, we increased efforts in our recruitment, training, development and retention programs as required to meet our anticipated personnel needs. Although we expect market conditions to slow employee turnover, if increased competition for labor were to intensify in the future we may experience further increases in costs or limits on operations. - 18 - We have a substantial amount of debt, and we may lose the ability to obtain future financing and suffer competitive disadvantages. Our overall debt level was $14 billion and $17 billion at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. This substantial level of debt and other obligations could have significant adverse consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following: • we may not be able to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; • we may not be able to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • we could become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given our substantial indebtedness, some of which bears interest at variable rates; • we may not be able to meet financial ratios included in our bank credit agreements due to market conditions or other events beyond our control, which could result in a default under these agreements and trigger cross default provisions in our other debt instruments; • less levered competitors could have a competitive advantage because they have lower debt service requirements; and • we may be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in market or industry conditions than our competitors. Our overall debt level and/or market conditions could lead the credit rating agencies to lower our corporate credit ratings below currently expected levels and possibly below investment grade. Our high leverage level and/or market conditions could lead the credit rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings below currently expected levels and possibly to non-investment grade levels. Such ratings levels could limit our ability to refinance our existing debt, cause us to issue debt with unfavorable terms and conditions and increase certain fees we pay under our credit facilities. In addition, such ratings levels could negatively impact current and prospective customers' willingness to transact business with us. Suppliers may lower or eliminate the level of credit provided through payment terms when dealing with us thereby increasing the need for higher levels of cash on hand, which would decrease our ability to repay debt balances. Our credit ratings are currently BBB+ and Baa2 by Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively. We may be limited in our use of net operating losses. Our ability to benefit from our deferred tax assets depends on us having sufficient future earnings to utilize our net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards before they expire. We have established a valuation allowance against the future tax benefit for a number of our foreign NOL carryforwards, and we could be required to record an additional valuation allowance against our foreign or U.S. deferred tax assets if market conditions change materially and, as a result, our future earnings are, or are projected to be, significantly less than we currently estimate. Our NOL carryforwards are subject to review and potential disallowance upon audit by the tax authorities of the jurisdictions where the NOLs are incurred. Our operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Our operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrate. However, costs for operating a rig are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. In addition, should our rigs incur idle time between contracts, we typically will not reduce the staff on those rigs because we will use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. In addition, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. We are subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a variety of litigation and may be sued in additional cases. Certain of our subsidiaries are named as defendants in numerous lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos or toxic fumes or resulting from other occupational diseases, such as silicosis, and various other medical issues that can remain undiscovered for a considerable amount of time. Some of these subsidiaries that have been put on notice of potential liabilities have no assets. Other subsidiaries are subject to litigation relating to environmental damage. We cannot predict the outcome of these cases involving those subsidiaries or the potential costs to resolve them. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases, insurers may not remain solvent, and policies may not be located. Suits against non-asset-owning subsidiaries have and may in the future give rise to alter ego or successor-in-interest claims against us and our asset-owning subsidiaries to the extent a subsidiary is unable to pay a claim or insurance is not available or sufficient to cover the claims. To the extent that one or more pending or future litigation matters are not resolved in our favor and are not covered by insurance, a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition could result. - 19 - Public health threats could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Public health threats, such as the bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our clients and the global economy, including the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and the level of demand for our services. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our offices or rigs could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for drilling services caused by public health threats in the future, may materially impact operations and adversely affect our financial results. Compliance with or breach of environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. For example, as an operator of mobile offshore drilling units in navigable U.S. waters and some offshore areas, we may be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to those operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. The application of these requirements or the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have generally been able to obtain some degree of contractual indemnification pursuant to which our clients agree to protect and indemnify us against liability for pollution, well and environmental damages; however, there is no assurance that we can obtain such indemnities in all of our contracts or that, in the event of extensive pollution and environmental damages, our clients will have the financial capability to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Also, these indemnities may not be enforceable in all instances. Our ability to operate our rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could be restricted by governmental regulation. Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 caused damage to a number of rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico fleet. Rigs that were moved off location by the storms damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling rigs. In 2006, the Minerals Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior ("MMS") issued interim guidelines requiring that semisubmersibles operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico assess their mooring systems against stricter criteria. In 2007 additional guidelines were issued which impose stricter criteria, requiring rigs to meet 25-year storm conditions. Although all of our semisubmersibles currently operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico meet the 2007 requirements, these guidelines may negatively impact our ability to operate other semisubmersibles in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in the future. Moreover, the MMS may issue additional regulations that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for our rigs in the future, thus reducing their marketability. Implementation of additional MMS regulations may subject us to increased costs or limit the operational capabilities of our rigs and could materially and adversely affect our operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Acts of terrorism and social unrest could affect the markets for drilling services. Acts of terrorism and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world's financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. In addition, acts of terrorism and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for drilling services. Insurance premiums could increase and coverages may be unavailable in the future. U.S. government regulations may effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to cover countries where we currently operate or where we may wish to operate in the future. Our status as a Swiss corporation may limit our flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management and may cause us to be unable to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding tax. Swiss law allows our shareholders to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without shareholder approval, but this authorization is limited to 50 percent of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. In the event we need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our shares is below the 15 Swiss franc (equivalent to U.S. $12.64, based on a foreign exchange rate of 1.1864 Swiss francs to $1.00 on February 20, 2009) par value of the shares, we will need to obtain approval of shareholders to decrease the par value of our shares or issue another class of shares with a lower par value. Any reduction in par value would decrease our par value available for future repayment of share capital not subject to Swiss withholding tax. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, dividends must be approved by shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. If we are not successful in our efforts to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or, after January 1, 2011, pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying additional paid-in capital as shown on Transocean Ltd.'s standalone Swiss statutory financial statements, - 20 - then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35 percent. Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, our shareholders may not approve a reduction in par value, or we may not be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value. The Swiss withholding rules could also be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available for us to use for par value reductions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or, after January 1, 2011, pay a dividend out of qualifying additional paid-in capital as shown on Transocean Ltd.'s standalone Swiss statutory financial statements, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. Under present Swiss tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to a 35 percent Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. We may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading line" on the SIX Swiss Exchange in which Swiss institutional investors sell shares to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting the selling shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions. Our articles of association and Swiss law contain provisions that could prevent or delay an acquisition of the company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions may also adversely affect prevailing market prices for our shares. These provisions, among other things: • classify our board into three classes of directors, each of which serve for staggered three-year periods; • provide that the board of directors is authorized, at any time during a maximum two-year period, to issue a number of shares of up to 50 percent of the share capital registered in the commercial register and to limit or withdraw the preemptive rights of existing shareholders in various circumstances, including (1) following a shareholder or group of shareholders acting in concert having acquired in excess of 15 percent of the share capital registered in the commercial register without having submitted a takeover proposal to shareholders that is recommended by the board of directors or (2) for purposes of the defense of an actual, threatened or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors has, upon consultation with an independent financial adviser retained by the board of directors, not recommended acceptance to the shareholders; • provide that any shareholder who wishes to propose any business or to nominate a person or persons for election as director at any annual meeting may only do so if advance notice is given to the Secretary of Transocean; • provide that directors can be removed from office only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote; • provide that a merger or demerger transaction requires the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of the shares represented at the meeting and provide for the possibility of a so-called "cashout" or "squeezeout" merger if the acquirer controls 90 percent of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of shares must be taken at a duly called annual or extraordinary general meeting of shareholders; • limit the ability of our shareholders to amend or repeal some provisions of our articles of association; and • limit transactions between us and an "interested shareholder," which is generally defined as a shareholder that, together with its affiliates and associates, beneficially, directly or indirectly, owns 15 percent or more of our shares entitled to vote at a general meeting. Our board of directors is comprised of six persons who were designated by Transocean and six persons who were designated by GlobalSantaFe prior to completing the Merger. Under our organizational regulations, at each annual general meeting held during the two years following the completion of the Merger, each such director whose term expires during such period will be nominated for re-election (or another person selected by the applicable group of directors will be nominated for election) to our board of directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 