Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should note that forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our high level of indebtedness could make obtaining additional capital resources difficult and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our growth strategy. As of December 31, 2012, the outstanding principal balances under our New First Lien Notes, Cash Pay Second Lien Notes and Non-Cash Pay Second Lien Notes, were $213.0 million, $9.6 million and $297.9 million, respectively. We will require additional capital resources in the future and there can be no assurance that such funds will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. The unavailability of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to expand our operations. Our high level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: · we may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, repayment of debt at maturity and other general corporate purposes; · a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service, which reduces the amount of cash we have available for other purposes; · we may be disadvantaged as compared to our competitors, such as in our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, as a result of the amount of debt we owe; · we may be restricted in our ability to make strategic acquisitions and to exploit business opportunities; and 12 · additional dilution of stockholders may be required to service our debt. Moreover, the Indentures governing our Notes contain covenants that limit our actions. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. The covenants limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · repurchase capital stock; · make loans and investments; · enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' abilities to pay dividends; · grant liens on assets; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets; · enter new lines of business; · merge or consolidate with other entities; and · engage in transactions with affiliates. We are currently in default under our New First Lien Notes, Cash Pay Second Lien Notes and Non-Cash Pay Second Lien Notes. Although we are operating under forbearance agreements with over 80% of the noteholders of the New First Lien Notes and 100% of the Cash Pay Second Lien Notes, if we do not reestablish compliance with certain financial covenants, ratios and tests by the earlier of May 6, 2013 or the occurrence of certain other circumstances, and otherwise remain in compliance with the Indentures governing our Notes, the holders of the New First Lien Notes and Cash Pay Second Lien Notes could accelerate this indebtedness and we may be unable to pay the total amount of indebtedness due or we may be unable to find alternative sources of financing to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. The indentures governing our Notes contain certain financial covenants and restrictions requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing, compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities. We did not make the Excess Cash Flow payments due on November 5, 2012 and on February 4, 2013 and as a result, the New First Lien Notes and Cash Pay Second Lien Notes are in default. Post-default interest of 17.5% accrues commencing as of the default date. On November 5, 2012, we entered into forbearance agreements with over 80% of the New First Lien Notes and 100% of the Cash Pay Second Lien Notes with respect to such defaults in exchange for a forbearance fee equal to one-half of a percent (0.5%) of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes held by such lenders. We entered into an amendment to this forbearance agreement on February 4, 2013 with holders of approximately 94% of the New First Lien Notes and 100% of the Cash Pay Second Lien Notes extending the forbearance period from February 4, 2013 to May 6, 2013. The forbearance agreement, as amended, remains in place until the earlier of May 6, 2013, the occurrence of a default other than for not making the Excess Cash Flow payment, acceleration by the Trustee, or certain other circumstances. Additionally, on May 11, 2012, the Trustee of the Non-Cash Pay Second Lien Notes and the Required Holders thereof waived the EBITDA covenant violation and the Total Debt Ratio for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and minimum liquidity requirement covenant violations through August 14, 2012, as well as the failure to timely comply with minimum liquidity requirement and the reporting requirement thereof. On August 10, 2012, the Company received a waiver from the Trustee and Required Holders related to its failure to meet the minimum EBITDA requirement as well as the Total Debt and other ratios for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and the minimum liquidity requirement waiver was extended through November 14, 2012. As a result of receiving these waivers, the Company was not subject to the post-default interest rate of 15%. The Company did not receive a waiver from the Trustee and Required Holders related to its failure to meet the minimum EBITDA requirement as well as the Total Debt and other ratios for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 and the minimum liquidity requirement waiver was not extended. Accordingly, the Company is subject to the post-default interest rate of 15% as of November 14, 2012. 13 If the forbearance period under the forbearance agreements terminates or expires, or if further events of default occur in the future under any of the indentures governing our Notes and our efforts to cure such events of default are unsuccessful, it would likely result in the acceleration of our then-outstanding debt. If all of our indebtedness was accelerated as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds at the time of acceleration to repay in full the total amount of indebtedness that becomes due as a result of such acceleration and we may be unable to find alternative sources of financing to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an explanatory paragraph concerning conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue to operate our business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to refinance the Notes. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $500.9 million in short-term debt, net of unamortized discount, $20,851 million of which had been reclassified from long-term debt, due to the maturity date and our failure to comply with certain covenants and restrictions in the Indentures governing our Notes. If we are unable to refinance the Notes prior to maturity or if the holders of the New First Lien Notes accelerate the debt, the terms of the Notes would require us to immediately repay up to approximately $213.0 million to our noteholders. We do not currently have sufficient cash to repay this indebtedness if our debt is not refinanced or if the holders of the New First Lien Notes accelerate the debt, and if the noteholders instituted foreclosure proceedings against our assets, the proceeds of the assets could be insufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Under these circumstances, we may be unable to continue operating as a going concern. In their report dated April 1, 2013, which is included in this Form 10-K, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that our New First Lien Notes and Cash Pay Second Lien Notes, absent a restructuring or refinancing, mature on September 30, 2012 and are subject to maturity date acceleration by the lenders as a result of events of default upon the expiration or termination of the forbearance agreements currently in place, we have failed to comply with certain covenants related to our Non-Cash Pay Second Lien Notes which mature on April 30, 2014, and that these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If doubts are raised about our ability to continue as a going concern, our stock price could drop and our ability to raise additional funds in connection with the refinancing may be adversely affected. Any of these outcomes would be detrimental to our operations. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. To service our indebtedness, including our Notes, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our existing cash balances and our ability to generate significant cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our New First Lien Notes and Cash Pay Second Lien Notes are currently scheduled to mature on September 30, 2013 and our Non-Cash Pay Second Lien Notes are currently scheduled to mature on April 30, 2014. If we are unable to restructure or refinance our Notes, our cash, cash flow from operations and any future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our Notes. Additionally, we may not be able to fund our other liquidity needs. Although we are trying to restructure or refinance our notes prior to their maturity dates, we may not be able to complete such restructuring or refinancing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may not be able to satisfy our repayment obligations in the event of a change of control because we may lack the funds to do so. Upon a change of control, each holder of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes in full at 110% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. Any future agreement governing any of our indebtedness may contain similar provisions. Accordingly, it is possible that we will not be able to satisfy our repurchase obligations of the Notes and future indebtedness upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient funds available to do so. There may not be sufficient collateral to pay all or any portion of the Notes. No appraisals of any collateral have been prepared. The value of collateral at any time will depend on market and other economic conditions, including the availability of suitable buyers for the collateral. By their nature, some or all of the pledged assets may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. The value of the assets pledged as collateral for the Notes and the guarantees of the Notes could be impaired in the future as a result of changing economic conditions, our failure to implement our business strategy, competition or other future trends or uncertainties. 14 The proceeds of any sale of the collateral following a default by us may not be sufficient to satisfy the amounts due on the Notes. No appraisal of the fair market value of the collateral has been prepared and we therefore cannot assure you that the value of the noteholders' interest in the collateral equals or exceeds the principal amount of the Notes. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding against us, holders of the Notes will only be entitled to post-petition interest, fees, costs or charges under U.S. bankruptcy laws to the extent that the value of their security interest in the collateral is greater than the amount of their pre-bankruptcy claim. Holders of the Notes that have a security interest in collateral with a value equal or less than their pre-bankruptcy claim will not be entitled to post-petition interest under U.S. bankruptcy laws and will only have an unsecured claim against FFN, INI and the subsidiary guarantors to the extent of such shortfall. Risks Related to our Business and Industry We have a history of significant net losses and we may incur additional net losses in the future, which have had and may continue to have material consequences to our business. We have historically generated significant net losses. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $311.2 million. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we had net losses of $49.4 million, $31.1 million and $43.2 million, respectively. We expect our operating expenses will continue to increase during the next several years as a result of additional costs incurred related to our status as a public company, the promotion of our services and the expansion of our operations, including the launch of new websites and modifications to existing websites. If our revenue does not grow at a substantially faster rate than these expected increases in our expenses or if our operating expenses are higher than we anticipate, we may not be profitable and we may incur additional losses, which could be significant. Our net losses cause us to be more highly leveraged, increase our cost of debt and make us subject to certain covenants which limit our ability to grow our business organically or through acquisitions. Most of our revenue is currently derived from subscribers to our online offerings and a reduction in the number of our subscribers or a reduction in the amount of spending by our subscribers could harm our financial condition. Our internet business generated approximately 93% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 from subscribers and other paying customers to our websites. For more information regarding our revenue, see the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations." We must continually add new subscribers to replace subscribers that we lose in the ordinary course of business due to factors such as competitive price pressures, credit card expirations, subscribers' perceptions that they do not use our services sufficiently and general economic conditions. Our subscribers maintain their subscriptions on average for approximately six and a half months. Our business depends on our ability to attract a large number of visitors, to convert visitors into registrants, to convert registrants into members, to convert members into subscribers and to retain our subscribers. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 757,000 current subscribers. For more information about our key business metrics including, but not limited to, the number of subscribers and the conversion of members to subscribers, see the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Internet Segment Historical Operating Data." If we are unable to provide the pricing and content, features, functions or services necessary to attract new subscribers or retain existing subscribers, our operating results could suffer. To the extent free social networking and personals websites, or free adult content on the internet, continue to be available or increase in availability, our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. In addition, any decrease in our subscribers' spending due to general economic conditions could also reduce our revenue or negatively impact our ability to grow our revenue. We face significant competition from other websites. Our adult-oriented websites face competition for visitors from other websites offering adult-oriented content, including websites offering free adult oriented content. We face competition from companies offering adult-oriented internet personals websites such as Cytek Ltd., the operator of SexSearch.com and Fling Incorporated and we compete with many adult-oriented and live interactive video websites, such as Playboy.com and LiveJasmin.com. Our general audience social networking and personals websites, which contribute substantially less of our revenue and earnings, face significant competition from other social networking websites such as Facebook.com, as well as companies providing online personals services such as Match.com, L.L.C., , eHarmony, Inc., Lavalife Corp., Plentyoffish Media Inc. and Spark Networks Limited websites, including jdate.com, americansingles.com and relationships.com. Other social networking websites have higher numbers of worldwide unique users than our network of websites. In addition, the number of unique visitors on our general audience social networking and personals websites has decreased and may continue to decrease. 15 Internet-based social networking is characterized by significant competition, evolving industry standards and frequent product and service enhancements. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in internet social networking. We must continually invest in improving our visitors' experiences and in providing services that people expect in a high quality internet experience, including services responsive to their needs and preferences and services that continue to attract, retain and expand our user base. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our services on a timely basis, we may lose visitors, licensees, affiliates and/or advertisers. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers, affiliates or licensees, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market. As internet-based social networking technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer social networking products or services that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar or better than those generated by us. As a result, we must continue to invest resources in order to diversify our service offerings and enhance our technology. If we are unable to provide social networking technologies and other services which generate significant traffic to our websites, our business could be harmed, causing revenue to decline. Some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, including print and television advertisements, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies that may allow them to build larger member and subscriber bases than ours. Our competitors may also develop products or services that are equal or superior to our products and services or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. Our attempts to increase traffic to and revenue from our general audience websites may be unsuccessful. Additionally, some of our competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions that we are, including those imposed by our December 2007 settlement with the Federal Trade Commission over the use of sexually explicit advertising. For more information regarding our potential liability for third party activities see the risk factor entitled "—We may be held secondarily liable for the actions of our affiliates, which could result in fines or other penalties that could harm our reputation, financial condition and business." These activities could attract members and paying subscribers away from our websites, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations. We heavily rely on our affiliate network to generate traffic to our websites. If we lose affiliates, our business could experience a substantial loss of traffic, which could harm our ability to generate revenue. Our affiliate network generated approximately 55% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 from visitor traffic to our websites. We generally pay referring affiliates commissions based on the amount of revenue generated by the traffic they deliver to our websites. Typically, our affiliate arrangements can be terminated immediately by us or our affiliates for any reason. Typically, we do not have exclusivity arrangements with our affiliates, and some of our affiliates may also be affiliates for our competitors. If other websites, including our competitors, were to offer higher paying affiliate programs, we could lose some of our affiliates unless we increased the commission rates we paid under our marketing affiliate program. Any increase in the commission rates we pay our affiliates would result in higher cost of revenue and could negatively impact our results of operations. Finally, we could lose affiliates if their internal policies are revised to prohibit entering into business contracts with companies like ours that provide adult material. The loss of affiliates providing significant traffic and visitors to our websites could harm our ability to generate revenue. Increased subscriber churn or subscriber upgrade and retention costs could adversely affect our financial performance. Turnover of subscribers in the form of subscriber service cancellations or failures to renew, or churn, has a significant financial impact on the results of operations of any subscription internet provider, including us, as does the cost of upgrading and retaining subscribers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our average monthly churn rate for our social networking websites was 18%. Any increase in the costs necessary to upgrade and retain existing subscribers could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, such increased costs could cause us to increase our subscription rates, which could increase churn. Churn may also increase due to factors beyond our control, including churn by subscribers who are unable or unwilling to pay their monthly subscription fees because of personal financial restrictions, the impact of a slowing economy or the attractiveness of competing services or websites. If excessive numbers of subscribers cancel or fail to renew their subscriptions, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to replace canceled or unrenewed subscribers with new subscribers, which could harm our financial condition. Continued imposition of tighter processing restrictions by credit card processing companies and acquiring banks would make it more difficult to generate revenue from our websites. We rely on third parties to provide credit card processing services allowing us to accept credit card payments from our subscribers and paid users. As of December 31, 2012, two credit card processing companies accounted for approximately 16.0% and 16.1% of our accounts receivable, respectively. Our business could be disrupted if these or other companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to the operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers imposed by the payment card industry seeking to protect credit card issuers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply with such rules or requirements. If we fail to comply, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit card payments from our customers, and our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment for our online products and services could also be restricted or denied for a number of other reasons, including but not limited to: 16 · if we experience excessive chargebacks and/or credits; · if we experience excessive fraud ratios; · if there is an adverse change in policy of the acquiring banks and/or card associations with respect to the processing of credit card charges for adult-related content; · if there is an increase in the number of European and U.S. banks that will not accept accounts selling adult-related content; · if there is a breach of our security resulting in the theft of credit card data; · if there is continued tightening of credit card association chargeback regulations in international commerce; · if there are association requirements for new technologies that consumers are less likely to use; and · if negative global economic conditions result in credit card companies denying more transactions. In May 2000, American Express instituted a policy of not processing credit card transactions for online, adult-oriented content and terminated all of its adult website merchant accounts. A significant portion of our credit-card based transactions are processed through VISA. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we experienced a $6.0 million increase in merchant fees, some of which related to penalties paid to VISA for excessive chargebacks. At any point in the future and solely within VISA US’s discretion, VISA US may institute a policy of not processing credit card transactions for online, adult-oriented content and may choose to terminate its adult website merchant accounts with us. The cancellation of our VISA relationship or any changes in VISA's rules and policies could require us to stop providing such payment processing services. If this occurs, we may be unable to obtain another credit card processing provider at similar costs, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Additionally, if other credit card processing companies were to implement a similar policy or take similar actions, it would have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and chargebacks. Our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards. We may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers. We calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit card chargebacks. If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our worldwide credit card chargeback rate is currently approximately 1.05% of the transactions processed. There are maximum thresholds of chargebacks imposed by VISA and MasterCard which may cause penalties to be imposed if they are exceeded. In the event that our monthly chargeback ratio and/or monthly reported fraud ratio exceeds the maximum prescribed by the card associations, we are subject to fines and penalties and have paid such fines and penalties over the last several months. In the event that such ratios do not come within the acceptable guidelines of card associations within a reasonable period of time, we will be subject to prescriptive action, including inability to process recurring transactions and elimination of affiliates directing members to our sites. We are subject from time to time to fines imposed by merchant banks on behalf of credit card companies. For example, during the second half of the year ended December 31, 2012, fines represented approximately 16% of our transaction based fees. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we experienced a $6.0 million increase in merchant fees, some of which related to penalties paid to VISA for excessive chargebacks. The reserves the banks require us to maintain are approximately 3.17% of our total net revenues. In addition, our required reserve balances have decreased from $11.2 million at December 31, 2011 to $10.1 million at December 31, 2012 due to the reduction in reserves held by our processors. If our chargeback rate increases or we are required to maintain increased reserves, this could increase our operating expenses and may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. 17 We have never generated significant revenue from internet advertising and may not be able to in the future and a failure to compete effectively against other internet advertising companies could result in lost customers or could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have never generated significant revenue from internet advertising. In the future, we may shift some of our websites with lower subscription penetration to an advertising-based revenue model and may seek to provide selected targeted advertising on our subscriber-focused websites. Our user database serves as an existing source of potential members or subscribers for new websites we create and additionally presents opportunities for us to offer targeted online advertising to specific demographic groups. Our ability to generate significant advertising revenue will also depend upon several factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer purchasing and viewing habits and changes in the retail sales environment and the continued development of the internet as an advertising medium. If the market for internet-based advertising does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than expected, or if social networking websites are deemed to be a poor medium on which to advertise, our plan to use internet advertising revenue as a means of revenue growth may not succeed. Because we allow our registrants to opt out of receiving certain communications from us and third parties, including advertisements, registrants who have opted out of receiving advertisements are potentially less valuable to us as a source of revenue than registrants who have not done so. The number of registrants who have opted out of receiving such communications are not identified in our gross number of registrants. In addition, filter software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being delivered to an internet user's computer are becoming increasingly effective and easy to use, making the success of implementing an advertising medium increasingly difficult. Widespread adoption of this type of software could harm the commercial viability of internet-based advertising and, as a result, hinder our ability to grow our advertising-based revenue. Competition for advertising placements among current and future suppliers of internet navigational and informational services, high-traffic websites and internet service providers, or ISPs, as well as competition with non-internet media for advertising placements, could result in significant price competition, declining margins and/ or reductions in advertising revenue. In addition, as we continue to expand the scope of our internet services, we may compete with a greater number of internet publishers and other media companies across an increasing range of different internet services, including in focused markets where competitors may have advantages in expertise, brand recognition and other areas. If existing or future competitors develop or offer services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. We would also compete with traditional advertising media, such as direct mail, television, radio, cable, and print, for a share of advertisers' total advertising budgets. Many potential competitors would enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, greater access to advertising space on high-traffic websites, and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully. Our business depends on strong brands, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, our ability to expand our base of users, advertisers and affiliates will be impaired and our business and operating results could be harmed. We believe that the brand recognition that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the "FriendFinder" and "AdultFriendFinder" brands is critical to expanding our base of users, advertisers and affiliates. Maintaining and enhancing our brands' profiles may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain the "FriendFinder" and "AdultFriendFinder" brands' profiles, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be harmed. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brands' profiles may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to be a technology leader and to continue to provide attractive products and services, which we may not do successfully. People have in the past expressed, and may in the future express, concerns over certain aspects of our products. For example, people have raised privacy concerns relating to the ability of our members to post pictures, videos and other information on our websites. Aspects of our future products may raise similar public concerns. Publicity regarding such concerns could harm our brands. Further, if we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, or if we fail to maintain high ethical, social and legal standards for all of our operations and activities, our reputation could be jeopardized. 18 In addition, affiliates and other third parties may take actions that could impair the value of our brands. We are aware that third parties, from time to time, use "FriendFinder" and "AdultFriendFinder" and similar variations in their domain names without our approval, and our brands may be harmed if users and advertisers associate these domains with us. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. Changes in global economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of our business. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. Our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the United States and abroad. If economic and market conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain unfavorable or deteriorate further, we may experience an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our entertainment segment continues to be adversely affected by these economic conditions, we may be required to take an impairment charge with respect to these assets. In addition, the current or future tightening of credit in financial markets could result in a decrease in demand for our products and services. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus a decline in general economic conditions may lead to our current and potential registrants, members, subscribers and paid users having less discretionary income to spend. This could lead to a reduction in our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the growth of our internet and entertainment revenue was adversely impacted by negative global economic conditions. For more information regarding the effect of economic conditions on our operating results see the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Accordingly, the unfavorable economic conditions in the United States and other countries may hurt our financial performance. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business and financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to keep pace with technological developments is uncertain. Our failure to respond in a timely and effective manner to new and evolving technologies could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The internet industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in consumer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. Our business, financial condition and operating results will depend, in part, on our ability to develop the technical expertise to address these rapid changes and to use leading technologies effectively. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or implementation of new features or services. Further, if the new technologies on which we intend to focus our investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace or our technology does not work and requires significant cost to replace or fix, our competitive position could be adversely affected, which could cause a reduction in our revenue and earnings. For example, our competitors could be the first to obtain proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior. Further, after incurring substantial costs, one or more of the technologies under development could become obsolete prior to its introduction. To access technologies and provide products that are necessary for us to remain competitive, we may make future acquisitions and investments and may enter into strategic partnerships with other companies. Such investments may require a commitment of significant capital and human and other resources. The value of such acquisitions, investments and partnerships and the technology accessed may be highly speculative. Arrangements with third parties can lead to contractual and other disputes and dependence on the development and delivery of necessary technology on third parties that we may not be able to control or influence. These relationships may commit us to technologies that are rendered obsolete by other developments or preclude the pursuit of other technologies which may prove to be superior. We may be held secondarily liable for the actions of our affiliates, which could result in fines or other penalties that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and business. Under the terms of our December 2007 settlement with the Federal Trade Commission, we have agreed not to display sexually explicit online advertisements to consumers who are not seeking out sexually explicit content, and we have also agreed to end our relationship with any affiliate that fails to comply with this restriction. Notwithstanding these measures, should any affiliate fail to comply with the restriction and display sexually explicit advertisements relating to our adult-oriented websites to any consumer not seeking adult content, we may be held liable for the actions of such affiliate and subjected to fines and other penalties that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and business. 19 In addition, we run the risk of being held responsible for the conduct or legal violations of our affiliates or those who have a marketing relationship with us, including, for example, with respect to their use of adware programs or other technology that causes internet advertisements to manifest in pop ups or similar mechanisms that can be argued to block or otherwise interfere with another website's content or otherwise be argued to violate the Lanham Act or be considered an unlawful, unfair, or deceptive business practice. If any of our relationships with internet search websites terminate, if such websites' methodologies are modified or if we are outbid by competitors, traffic to our websites could decline. We depend in part on various internet search websites, such as Google.com, Bing.com, Yahoo.com and other websites to direct a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Search websites typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings generally are determined and displayed as a result of a set of unpublished formulas designed by search engine companies in their discretion. Purchased listings generally are displayed if particular word searches are performed on a search engine. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased search results, as well as advertising on other internet websites, to direct a substantial share of visitors to our websites and to direct traffic to the advertiser customers we serve. If these internet search websites modify or terminate their relationship with us or we are outbid by our competitors for purchased listings, meaning that our competitors pay a higher price to be listed above us in a list of search results, traffic to our websites could decline. Such a decline in traffic could affect our ability to generate subscription revenue and could reduce the desirability of advertising on our websites. If members decrease their contributions of content to our websites that depend on such content, the viability of those websites would be impaired. Many of our websites rely on members' continued contribution of content without compensation. We cannot guarantee that members will continue to contribute such content to our websites. In addition, we may offer discounts to members who provide content for our websites as an incentive for their contributions. In the event that contributing members decrease their contributions to our websites, or if the quality of such contributions is not sufficiently attractive to our audiences, or if we are required to offer additional discounts in order to encourage members to contribute content to our websites, this could have a negative impact on our business, revenue and financial condition. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to provide adequate security to protect our users and our systems. Online security breaches could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter use of the internet in general or use of the internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials. In offering online payment services, we may increasingly rely on technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information, such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could compromise or breach the algorithms that we use to protect our customers' transaction data. If third parties are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate confidential information, we could be subject to liability, which could result in litigation, regulatory investigation or regulatory action. In addition, computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks have become more prevalent in our industry, and may occur on our systems in the future. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security, and availability of our products and technical infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract new users. In addition, spammers may attempt to use our products to send targeted and untargeted spam messages to users, which may embarrass or annoy users and make our websites less user-friendly. We cannot be certain that the technologies, employees and third parties that we have employed or retained to attempt to defeat spamming attacks will be able to eliminate all spam messages from being sent on our platform. As a result of spamming activities, our users may use our websites less or stop using our products altogether. In addition, experienced programmers or "hackers" may attempt to misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services that could require us to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or remediate these problems. Our business involves risks of liability claims arising from our media content, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and could increase our operating expenses. As a distributor of media content, we face potential liability for defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, obscenity, violation of rights of publicity and/or obscenity laws and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against broadcasters, publishers, online services and other disseminators of media content. We could also be exposed to liability in connection with content made available through our online social networking and personals websites by users of those websites. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, measures to reduce our exposure to liability in connection with content available through our internet websites could require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our internet websites and/or their availability in certain geographic areas, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and could increase our operating expenses. 20 Privacy concerns could increase our costs, damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services and negatively affect our operating results. From time to time, concerns may arise about whether our products and services compromise the privacy of users and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services, which could negatively affect our operating results. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies on each of the platforms where our products are available, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Increased scrutiny by regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies, of the use of customer information, could also result in additional expenses if we are obligated to reengineer systems to comply with new regulations or to defend investigations of our privacy practices. In addition, as most of our products and services are web based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users' data could seriously harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. A security or privacy breach may: · cause our customers to lose confidence in our services; · deter consumers from using our services; · harm our reputation; · require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and result in a disruption of our operations; · expose us to liability; · subject us to unfavorable regulatory restrictions and requirements imposed by the Federal Trade Commission or similar authority; · cause us to incur expenses related to remediation costs; and · decrease market acceptance of the use of e-commerce transactions. The risk that these types of events could adversely affect our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of products and services we offer as well as increase the number of countries where we operate, as more opportunities for such breaches of privacy will exist. Proposed legislation concerning data protection is currently pending at the U.S. federal and state level as well as in certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, the interpretation and application of data protection laws in Europe, the United States and elsewhere are still uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Complying with these laws as they evolve could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 21 We may not be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We currently own and maintain approximately 150 U.S. trademark registrations and applications and approximately 900 foreign trademark registrations and applications. We believe that our trademarks, particularly the "AdultFriendFinder," "FriendFinder," "FastCupid," “PerfectMatch,” "Penthouse," "Penthouse Letters," "Forum," and "Variations" names and marks, the One Key Logo, and other proprietary rights are important to our success, potential growth and competitive position. Our inability or failure to protect or enforce these trademarks and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment, protection and enforcement of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Our actions to establish, protect and enforce our trademarks and other proprietary rights may not prevent imitation of our products, services or brands or control piracy by others or prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and other proprietary rights by us or prevent others from challenging the validity of our trademarks. In addition, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights, including trademark rights, through legal or administrative proceedings would be costly and time-consuming and would likely divert management from their normal responsibilities. An adverse determination in any litigation or other proceeding could put one or more of our intellectual property rights at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. On April 13, 2011, Facebook, Inc., or Facebook, filed a complaint against us and certain of our subsidiaries in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging trademark infringement. We settled this matter in February 2012. There are factors outside of our control that pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the internet. Intellectual property litigation could expose us to significant costs and liabilities and thus negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are, from time to time, subject to claims of infringement of third party patents and trademarks and other violations of third party intellectual property rights. For example, on April 13, 2011, Facebook filed a complaint against us and certain of our subsidiaries in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging trademark infringement. We settled this matter in February 2012. Intellectual property disputes are generally time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and the outcome of such disputes is uncertain and difficult to predict. The existence of such disputes may require us to set-aside substantial reserves, and has the potential to significantly affect our overall financial standing. To the extent that claims against us are successful, they may subject us to substantial liability, and we may have to pay substantial monetary damages, change aspects of our business model, and/or discontinue any of our services or practices that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. Such outcomes may severely restrict or hinder ongoing business operations and impact the value of our business. Successful claims against us could also result in us having to seek a license to continue our practices. Under such conditions, a license may or may not be offered or otherwise made available to us. If a license is made available to us, the cost of the license may significantly increase our operating burden and expenses, potentially resulting in a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have been and are currently involved in multiple areas of commerce, internet services, and high technology where there is a substantial risk of future patent litigation, we have not obtained insurance for patent infringement losses. If we are unsuccessful at resolving pending and future patent litigation in a reasonable and affordable manner, it could disrupt our business and operations, including by negatively impacting areas of commerce or putting us at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of certain information, the value of our products and technology could be materially adversely affected. Our commercial success depends on our know-how, trade secrets and other intellectual property, including the ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes, know-how and data that we regard as trade secrets, including our proprietary source code for our software systems. We seek to protect our proprietary information in part through confidentiality agreements with employees and others. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors in a manner providing us with no practical recourse against the competing parties. If any such events were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and future growth prospects. If we are unable to obtain or maintain key website addresses, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. Our website addresses, or domain names, are critical to our business. We currently own more than 4,400 domain names. However, the regulation of domain names is subject to change, and it may be difficult for us to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to ours, that infringe our trademarks or that otherwise decrease the value of our brands. If we are unable to obtain or maintain key domain names for the various areas of our business, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. 22 We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and lead to the loss of users and advertisers. To be successful, our network infrastructure has to perform well and be reliable. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more computer power we will need. We could incur substantial costs if we need to modify our websites or our infrastructure to adapt to technological changes. If we do not maintain our network infrastructure successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures, the quality of our products and services and our users' experience could decline. Maintaining an efficient and technologically advanced network infrastructure is particularly critical to our business because of the pictorial nature of the products and services provided on our websites. A decline in quality could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential users and advertisers. Cost increases, loss of traffic or failure to accommodate new technologies or changing business requirements could harm our operating results and financial condition. The loss of our main data center, our backup data center or other parts of our systems and network infrastructure would adversely affect our business. Our main data center, our backup data center and most of our servers are located at external third-party facilities in Northern California, an area with a high risk of major earthquakes. If our main data center or other parts of our systems and network infrastructure was destroyed by, or suffered significant damage from, an earthquake, fire, flood, lightning, tornado, or other similar catastrophes, or if our main data center was closed because of the operator having financial difficulties, our business would be adversely affected. Our casualty insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to the occurrence of a natural disaster. Our internet operations are subject to system failures and interruptions that could hurt our ability to provide users with access to our websites, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The uninterrupted performance of our computer systems is critical to the operation of our websites. Our ability to provide access to our websites and content may be disrupted by power losses, telecommunications failures or break-ins to the facilities housing our servers. Our users may become dissatisfied by any disruption or failure of our computer systems that interrupts our ability to provide our content. Repeated or prolonged system failures could substantially reduce the attractiveness of our websites and/or interfere with commercial transactions, negatively affecting our ability to generate revenue. Our websites must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver regularly-updated content. Some of our network infrastructure is not fully redundant, meaning that we do not have back-up infrastructure on site for our entire network, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Our websites have, on occasion, experienced slow response times and network failures. These types of occurrences in the future could cause users to perceive our websites as not functioning properly and therefore induce them to frequent other websites. We are also subject to risks from failures in computer systems other than our own because our users depend on their own internet service providers in order to access our websites and view our content. Our revenue could be negatively affected by outages or other difficulties users experience in accessing our websites due to internet service providers' system disruptions or similar failures unrelated to our systems. Any disruption in the ability of users to access our websites could result in fewer visitors to our websites and subscriber cancellations or failures to renew, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not carry sufficient levels of business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any events that cause interruptions in our service. Because of our adult content, companies providing products and services on which we rely may refuse to do business with us. Many companies that provide products and services we need are concerned that associating with us could lead to their becoming the target of negative publicity campaigns by public interest groups and boycotts of their products and services. As a result of these concerns, these companies may be reluctant to enter into or continue business relationships with us. For example, some domestic banks have declined providing merchant bank processing services to us and some credit card companies have ceased or declined to be affiliated with us. This has caused us, in some cases, to seek out and establish business relationships with international providers of the services we need to operate our business. There can be no assurance however, that we will be able to maintain our existing business relationships with the companies, domestic or international, that currently provide us with services and products. Our inability to maintain such business relationships, or to find replacement service providers, would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be forced to enter into business arrangements on terms less favorable to us than we might otherwise obtain, which could lead to our doing business with less competitive terms, higher transaction costs and more inefficient operations than if we were able to maintain such business relationships or find replacement service providers. 23 Changes in laws could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are regulated by diverse and evolving laws and governmental authorities in the United States and other countries in which we operate. Such laws relate to, among other things, internet, breach notification, privacy, licensing, intellectual property rights, security, financial transactions, taxation, commercial advertising, subscription rates, foreign investment, use of confidential customer information and content, including standards of decency/obscenity and record-keeping for adult content production. Promulgation of new laws, changes in current laws, changes in interpretations by courts and other government officials of existing laws, our inability or failure to comply with current or future laws or strict enforcement by current or future government officers of current or future laws could adversely affect us by reducing our revenue, increasing our operating expenses and/or exposing us to significant liabilities. The following laws impacting our business highlight some, but not all, of the potential difficulties we face: · Internet. Several U.S. governmental agencies are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals that may lead to laws or regulations concerning different aspects of the internet, including social networking, information collection, use and sharing, online content, mobile applications, geo-location information, intellectual property rights, e-mail, user privacy, taxation, access charges, liability for third-party activities and personal jurisdiction. New Jersey enacted the Internet Dating Safety Act in 2008, which requires online dating services to disclose whether they perform criminal background screening practices and to offer safer dating tips on their websites. Other states, including Florida, Illinois, New York and Texas, have enacted or considered enacting similar legislation. While online dating and social networking websites are not currently required to verify the age or identity of their members or to run criminal background checks on them, any such requirements could increase our cost of operations or discourage use of our services. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) restricts the ability of online services to collect information from minors. The Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. The increased use of cloud computing has created additional flexibility in online product development and deployment, however federal and state laws and regulations applicable to cloud computing to evolve and could pose a risk to the use of the cloud technology. · Breach Notification. Many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as California's Information Practices Act. Congress is considering legislation which may pre-empt the various state breach notification laws and create separate federal standards. · Privacy. Congress, the FTC and at least 37 states have promulgated laws and regulations regarding email advertising and the application of such laws and the extent of federal preemptions is still evolving. We face risks in international markets where our products and services are offered and may be subject to additional regulations and balkanized laws. The interpretation and application of data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are still uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines and other monetary remedies, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices. State and federal privacy laws and regulations, and the interpretations thereof, are constantly changing and our compliance with these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business. · Intellectual Property Rights. There are a variety of ways intellectual property laws impact our business. For instance, under U.S. law, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions which limit, but do not eliminate, our liability to list or link to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. · Security. Several states, including Massachusetts and Nevada, have enacted laws prohibiting businesses from transferring a customer's personal information through an electronic transmission, unless that information is encrypted. In practice, the law requires businesses operating in Massachusetts and Nevada to purchase and implement data encryption software in order to send any electronic transmission (including e-mail) that contains a customer's personal information. The Massachusetts regulations also require encryption of data on laptops and flash drives or other portable devices, and apply to anyone who owns, licenses, stores, or maintains personal information about the state's residents. Any failure on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. Several states, including Massachusetts, Arkansas, and California, have enacted laws that require companies to implement and maintain comprehensive information security programs. 24 · Financial Transactions. Several states, including Minnesota and Nevada, have enacted laws that codify requirements of the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI DSS”). As a payment processor we are required to comply with PCI DSS and a credit card information breach could subject us to penalties or fines. Title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or CFPB, within the Federal Reserve Board, and will require the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations. Significant portions of the Dodd-Frank Act related to the CFPB became effective on July 21, 2011. The CFPB has broad powers to promulgate, administer and enforce consumer financial regulations, including those applicable to us. · Taxation. The federal government is considering comprehensive tax reforms, which could have materially adverse impacts on our business. In addition, several states and the federal government are considering changes to the way the sales taxes are applied to online businesses, which could have a materially adverse impact on our business. · Use of confidential customer information and content. Regulation of the internet or regulation concerning the use, collection or sharing of consumer information, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing the overall use of the internet, reducing the demand for our services or increasing our cost of doing business. Proposed legislation concerning data protection is currently pending at the U.S. federal and state level as well as in certain foreign jurisdictions. Complying with these laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. · Decency/Obscenity. The Communications Decency Act (CDA), under certain circumstances, immunizes computer service providers from liability for certain non-intellectual property claims for content created by third parties. The interpretation of the extent of CDA immunity is evolving and we run the risk that in certain instances we may not qualify for such immunity. Changes in federal or state decency or obscenity laws or regulations, or interpretations thereof, may have a materially adverse impact on our business. · Commercial advertising. We receive a significant portion of our print publications advertising revenue from companies that sell tobacco products. Significant limitations on the ability of those companies to advertise in our publications or on our websites because of legislative, regulatory or court action could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. · Adult content. Regulation, investigations and prosecutions of adult content could prevent us from making such content available in certain jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government officials may also place additional restrictions on adult content affecting the way people interact on the internet. The governments of some countries, such as China and India, have sought to limit the influence of other cultures by restricting the distribution of products deemed to represent foreign or "immoral" influences. Regulation aimed at limiting minors' access to adult content both in the United States and abroad could also increase our cost of operations and introduce technological challenges by requiring development and implementation of age verification systems. U.S. government officials could amend or construe and seek to enforce more broadly or aggressively the adult content recordkeeping and labeling requirements set forth in 18 U.S.C. Section 2257 and its implementing regulations in a manner that is unfavorable to our business. Court rulings may place additional restrictions on adult content affecting how people interact on the internet, such as mandatory web labeling. We could be held liable for any physical and emotional harm caused by our members and subscribers to other members or subscribers. We cannot control the actions of our members and subscribers in their online behavior or their communication or physical actions with other members or subscribers. There is a possibility that one or more of our members or subscribers could be physically or emotionally harmed by the behavior of or following interaction with another of our members or subscribers. We warn our members and subscribers that member profiles are provided solely by third parties, and we are not responsible for the accuracy of information they contain or the intentions of individuals that use our sites. We are also unable to and do not take any action to ensure personal safety on a meeting between members or subscribers arranged following contact initiated via our websites. If an unfortunate incident of this nature occurred in a meeting between users of our websites following contact initiated on one of our websites or a website of one of our competitors, any resulting negative publicity could materially and adversely affect us or the social networking and online personals industry in general. Any such incident involving one of our websites could damage our reputation and our brands. This, in turn, could adversely affect our revenue and could cause the value of our common stock to decline. In addition, the affected members or subscribers could initiate legal action against us, which could cause us to incur significant expense, whether or not we were ultimately successful in defending such action, and damage our reputation. 25 Our websites may be misused by users, despite the safeguards we have in place to protect against such behavior. Users may be able to circumvent the controls we have in place to prevent illegal or dishonest activities and behavior on our websites, and may engage in such activities and behavior despite these controls. For example, our websites could be used to exploit children and to facilitate individuals seeking payment for sexual activity and related activities in jurisdictions in which such behavior is illegal. The behavior of such users could injure our other members and may jeopardize the reputation of our websites and the integrity of our brands. Users could also post fraudulent profiles or create false or unauthorized profiles on behalf of other, non-consenting parties. This behavior could expose us to liability or lead to negative publicity that could injure the reputation of our websites and of social networking and online personals websites in general. Our business is exposed to risks associated with online commerce security and credit card fraud. Consumer concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the internet or the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the internet and online commerce. To transmit confidential information such as customer credit card numbers securely, we rely on encryption and authentication technology. Unanticipated events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the systems we use to protect customer transaction data. Furthermore, our servers may also be vulnerable to viruses and other attacks transmitted via the internet. As a payment processor, we are required to comply with PCI DSS and a credit card information breach could subject us to penalties or fines, litigation, regulatory investigation or regulatory action. While we proactively check for intrusions into our infrastructure, a new and undetected virus could cause a service disruption. Under current credit card practices, we may be held liable for fraudulent credit card transactions and other payment disputes with customers. A failure to control fraudulent credit card transactions adequately would adversely affect our business. If one or more states or countries successfully assert that we should collect sales or other taxes on the use of the internet or the online sales of goods and services, our expenses could increase, resulting in lower margins. In the United States, federal and state tax authorities are currently exploring the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce and new state tax regulations may subject us to additional state sales and income taxes, which could increase our expenses and decrease our profit margins. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value added tax, goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to e-commerce businesses such as ours and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth in internet technology and e-commerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the internet or e-commerce or communications conducted over the internet. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the internet or some aspect of e-commerce or communications on the internet. The application of existing or future laws could have adverse effects on our business. Under current law, as outlined in the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, 504 U.S. 298 (1992), a seller with substantial nexus (usually defined as physical presence) in its customer's state is required to collect state (and local) sales tax on sales arranged over the internet (or by telephone, mail order, or other means). In contrast, an out-of-state seller without substantial nexus in the customer's state is not required to collect the sales tax. The U.S. federal government's moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing new taxes on internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on internet commerce is scheduled to expire on October 31, 2014. This moratorium, however, does not prohibit the possibility that U.S. Congress will be willing to grant state or local authorities the authority to require remote (out-of-state) sellers to collect sales and use taxes on interstate sales of goods (including intellectual property) and services over the internet. Several proposals to that extent have been made at the U.S. federal, state and local levels (for example, the Streamlined Sales and the Use Tax initiative). These proposals, if adopted, would likely result in our having to charge state sales tax to some or all of our users in connection with the sale of our products and services, which would harm our business if the added cost deterred users from visiting our websites and could substantially impair the growth of our e-commerce opportunities and diminish our ability to derive financial benefit from our activities. Certain states, including New York, Illinois, Connecticut, Colorado, North Carolina, Rhode Island and Tennessee, have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, state nexus laws, often referred to as Amazon tax laws, whereby the responsibility to collect sales or use taxes is imposed on an out-of-state- seller which used an in-state resident to solicit business from the residents of that state using internet sites. If it is determined that these laws are applicable to our operations, then we could be required to collect from our customers and remit additional sales or use taxes and, if any state determines that we should have been collecting such taxes previously, we may be subject to past tax, interest, late fees and penalties. In addition, in 2007 we received a claim from the State of Texas for an immaterial amount relating to our failure to file franchise tax returns for the years 2000 through 2006. We believe that we are not obligated to file franchise tax returns because of the nature of our services provided and the lack of sufficient nexus to the State of Texas. On appeal the State of Texas reversed their earlier position and found in our favor. We have received and could continue to receive similar inquiries from other states attempting to impose franchise, income or similar taxes on us. 26 We collect and remit VAT on digital orders from purchasers in most member states of the European Union. There can be no assurance that this increased cost will not adversely affect our ability to attract new subscribers within the European Union or to retain existing subscribers within the European Union and consequently adversely affect our results of operations. Certain member states, including the United Kingdom, have ruled that we are not required to register and account for VAT in their jurisdiction. There can be no assurance that the tax authorities of these jurisdictions will not, at some point in the future, revise their current position and require us to register and account for VAT. Our liability to tax authorities in the European Union for the failure of Various and its subsidiaries to collect and remit VAT on purchases made by subscribers in the European Union could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. After our acquisition of Various in December 2007, we became aware that Various and its subsidiaries had not collected VAT from subscribers in the European Union nor had Various remitted VAT to the tax jurisdictions requiring it. We have initiated discussions with most tax authorities in the European Union jurisdictions to attempt to resolve liabilities related to Various' past failure to collect and remit VAT, and while we have resolved such prior liabilities in several jurisdictions on favorable terms, there can be no assurance that we will resolve or reach a favorable resolution in every jurisdiction. If we are unable to reach a favorable resolution with a jurisdiction, the terms of such resolution could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. For example, we might be required to pay substantial sums of money without the benefit of a payment deferral plan, which could adversely affect our cash position and impair operations. As of December 31, 2012, the total amount of historical uncollected VAT payments was approximately $39.0 million including approximately $19.9 million in potential penalties and interest. For more information regarding the potential effect that our VAT liability could have on our operations see the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources." Until we have reached a favorable resolution with a jurisdiction, the jurisdictions might take action against us and against our managers. For example, in an effort to recover VAT payments it claims it is owed, the German tax authority has attempted unsuccessfully to freeze assets in bank accounts maintained by subsidiaries of Various in Germany, and did freeze €610,343 of assets in a bank account in The Netherlands with the cooperation of the Dutch authorities and continues to enlist the Dutch tax authorities to assist in its collection efforts. If another jurisdiction were to freeze or seize our cash or other assets, our operations and financial condition could be impaired. In addition, in many jurisdictions the potential exists for criminal investigations or proceedings to be instituted against us and against individual members of prior or current management. Were members of our management to face criminal processes individually, their attention to operational matters could be diverted and their ability to continue to serve in their capacities could be impaired. Were Various or its subsidiaries to face criminal processes, it could result in additional fines and penalties, or substantially interfere with continued operations in such jurisdictions. We are actively engaged in efforts to resolve all issues, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our recourse for liabilities arising from our acquisition of Various is limited. Under the agreement pursuant to which we purchased Various and its subsidiaries in December 2007, our sole recourse against the sellers for most losses suffered by us as a result of liabilities was to offset the principal amount of our Subordinated Convertible Notes by the amount of any such losses. The maximum amount of such offset available to us was $175 million. On October 8, 2009, we settled and released all indemnity claims against the sellers (whether the claims were VAT related or not) by reducing the original principal amount of the Subordinated Convertible Notes to $156 million from $170 million. In addition, the sellers agreed to make available to us, to pay VAT and certain VAT-related expenses, $10.0 million cash held in a working capital escrow account established at the closing of the Various transaction. If the actual costs to us of eliminating the VAT liability are less than $29.0 million, after applying amounts from the working capital escrow, then the principal amount of the Non-Cash Pay Notes (notes issued in exchange for the Subordinated Convertible Notes in October 2010) will be increased by the issuance of Non-Cash Pay Notes to reflect the difference between $29.0 million and the actual VAT liability, plus interest on such difference. Accordingly, any additional undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisition of Various may result in losses that we can no longer attempt to recover from the sellers. Any such liabilities for which we have no recourse could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 27 In pursuing future acquisitions we may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or consummating acquisitions on favorable or acceptable terms. Furthermore, we may face significant integration issues and may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions due to integration difficulties or other operating issues. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may acquire businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategically advantageous to our business. Transactions of this sort could involve numerous risks, including: · unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures arising from the process of integrating any acquired business, product or technology, including related personnel, and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · diversion of a significant amount of management's attention from the ongoing development of our business; · dilution of existing stockholders' ownership interests, if we issue equity as part or all of the purchase price consideration for an acquisition transaction; · incurrence of additional debt; · exposure to additional operational risks and liabilities, including risks and liabilities arising from the operating history of any acquired businesses; · negative effects on reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired intangibles; · entry into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; · the potential inability to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses; · adverse effects on our relationships with suppliers and customers; and · adverse effects on the existing relationships of any acquired companies, including suppliers and customers. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or consummating acquisitions on favorable or acceptable terms, or at all. Failure to effectively manage our growth through acquisitions could adversely affect our growth prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our efforts to capitalize upon opportunities to expand into new markets may fail and could result in a loss of capital and other valuable resources. One of our strategies is to expand into new markets to increase our revenue base. We intend to identify new markets by targeting identifiable groups of people who share common interests and the desire to meet other individuals with similar interests, backgrounds or traits. Our planned expansion into new markets will occupy our management's time and attention and will require us to invest significant capital resources. The results of our expansion efforts into new markets are unpredictable and there is no guarantee that our efforts will have a positive effect on our revenue base. We face many risks associated with our planned expansion into new markets, including but not limited to the following: · competition from pre-existing competitors with significantly stronger brand recognition in the markets we enter; · our erroneous evaluations of the potential of such markets; · diversion of capital and other valuable resources away from our core business; · foregoing opportunities that are potentially more profitable; and · weakening our current brands by over expansion into too many new markets. 28 We face the risk that additional international expansion efforts and operations will not be effective. One of our strategies is to increase our revenue base by expanding into new international markets and expanding our presence in existing international markets. Further expansion into international markets requires management time and capital resources. We face the following risks associated with our expansion outside the United States: · challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; · local competitors with substantially greater brand recognition, more users and more traffic than we have; · challenges associated with creating and increasing our brand recognition, improving our marketing efforts internationally and building strong relationships with local affiliates; · longer payment cycles in some countries; · credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud in some countries; · different legal and regulatory restrictions among jurisdictions; · political, social and economic instability; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · higher costs associated with doing business internationally. The loss of the services of certain of our key executive officers may negatively affect our business. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends on the continued employment of our executive officers. In particular, Anthony Previte, Ezra Shashoua and Robert Brackett are critical to our overall management and strategic direction. We have entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Previte, Shashoua and Brackett which sets a term of employment and provides compensation terms, including the base salary, bonus and equity compensation that each of Messrs. Previte, Shashoua and Brackett are eligible to receive. However, each of Messrs. Previte, Shashoua and Brackett are free to voluntarily terminate their employment with us upon complying with any applicable notice period under their employment agreements. The employment agreements do not ensure continued service with us and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining the services of these executive officers. The unexpected loss of any of Messrs. Previte, Shashoua and Brackett could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we currently do not have any key man insurance policies in place and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such insurance in the future. As a result, without key man insurance, we will not be compensated for losses incurred as a result of the death or incapacity of any of our executives. If we lose any of Messrs. Previte, Shashoua and Brackett, we may not be able to find an appropriate replacement on a timely basis, or at all, and our results of operations could be negatively affected. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to attract, retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our business strategy and performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our success greatly depends on our ability to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly in sales, marketing, service and support. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully recruit and integrate new employees. We face significant competition for individuals with the skills required to perform the services we offer and currently we do not have non-compete agreements with a number of our key personnel. Furthermore, most of our key employees are at-will employees. The loss of the services of our key personnel, particularly if lost to competitors, could materially and adversely affect our business. If we are unable to attract, integrate and retain qualified personnel or if we experience high personnel turnover, we could be prevented from effectively managing and expanding our business, or it could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, companies in technology industries whose employees accept positions with competitors have in the past claimed that their competitors have engaged in unfair competition or hiring practices. If we received such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, it could lead to material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending against such claims, regardless of their merit. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense, and certain of our competitors may directly target our employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. 29 Workplace and other restrictions on access to the internet may limit user traffic on our websites. Many offices, businesses, libraries and educational institutions restrict employee and student access to the internet or to certain types of websites, including social networking and personals websites. Since our revenue is dependent on user traffic to our websites, an increase in these types of restrictions, or other similar policies, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, access to our websites outside the United States may be restricted by governmental authorities or internet service providers. These restrictions could hinder our growth. Adverse currency fluctuations could decrease revenue and increase expenses. We conduct business globally in many foreign currencies, but report our financial results in U.S. dollars. We are therefore exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates because depreciation of non-U.S. currencies against the U.S. dollar reduces the U.S. dollar value of the non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue that we recognize and appreciation of non-U.S. currencies against the U.S. dollar increases the U.S. dollar value of expenses that we incur that are denominated in those foreign currencies. Such fluctuations could decrease revenue and increase our expenses. We have not entered into foreign currency hedging contracts to reduce the effect of adverse changes in the value of foreign currencies but may do so in the future. We are subject to litigation and adverse outcomes in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings including, but not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, in particular patent infringement claims against us, securities class action claims, breach of contract and fraud claims, some of which are described in this annual report on Form 10-K in the section entitled "Legal Proceedings" and the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements, that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. As a result, actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue and profitability and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Industry reports may not accurately reflect the current economic climate. Because industry reports and publications contain data that has been compiled for prior measurement periods, such reports and publications may not accurately reflect the current economic climate affecting the industry. The necessary lag time between the end of a measured period and the release of an industry report or publication may result in reporting results that, while not inaccurate with respect to the period reported, are out of date with the current state of the industry. Many individuals are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet. If users of these devices do not widely adopt solutions we develop for these devices or if we encounter difficulties or unexpected costs regarding our mobile applications or mobile solutions, our business could be adversely affected. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile telephones, smart phones, and handheld tablets or computers, has increased dramatically in the past few years and we anticipate that the rate of growth in mobile usage will exceed the growth in usage through personal computers for the foreseeable future. The lower resolution, functionality and memory currently associated with such mobile devices may make the use of our websites through such mobile devices more difficult and may impair the member experience relative to access via desktop and laptop customers. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of such mobile device customers to our websites or if we are unable to develop services that are more compatible with such mobile communications devices, our growth could be adversely affected. If we are unable to develop mobile solutions to meet the needs of our customers, our business could suffer. Additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our applications or solutions for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such devices. 30 We are also dependent on the interoperability of our websites with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Android and iOS, and any changes in such systems that degrade our products' functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to deliver high quality mobile products, it is important that our products work well with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. We may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks, or standards. In the event that it is more difficult for our customers to access and use our websites on their mobile devices, our customers choose not to access or use our websites on their mobile devices or use mobile products that do not offer access to our websites, our customer growth and customer engagement could be harmed. Our business relies heavily on email and other messaging services, and any restrictions on the sending of emails or messages or a decrease in subscriber willingness to receive messages could adversely affect our revenue and business. Our business is highly dependent upon email and other messaging services. We expect deals offered through emails and other messages sent by us, or on our behalf by our affiliates, will generate a substantial portion of our revenue in the future. Because of the importance of email and other messaging services to our businesses, if we are unable to successfully deliver emails or messages to our subscribers or potential subscribers, or if subscribers decline to open our emails or messages, our revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. Actions by third parties to block, impose restrictions on, or charge for the delivery of, emails or other messages could also materially and adversely impact our business. From time to time, internet service providers block bulk email transmissions or otherwise experience technical difficulties that result in our inability to successfully deliver emails or other messages to third parties. In addition, our use of email and other messaging services to send communications about our website or other matters may result in legal claims against us, which if successful might limit or prohibit our ability to send emails or other messages. Any disruption or restriction on the distribution of emails or other messages or any increase in the associated costs would materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions and subscriber disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business. While we use advanced anti-fraud technologies, it is possible that technically knowledgeable criminals will attempt to circumvent our anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. In addition, our service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and we may be required to reimburse consumers and/or merchants for any funds stolen or revenue lost as a result of such breaches. Our merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using our services, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. We may incur significant losses from fraud and counterfeit promotions. We may incur losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, from merchant fraud, from erroneous transmissions, and from consumers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they could potentially result in our losing the right to accept credit cards for payment. If we were unable to accept credit cards for payment, we would suffer substantial reductions in revenue, which would cause our business to suffer. While we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. Federal laws and regulations, such as the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act and similar foreign laws, could be expanded to include our promotions. Various federal laws, such as the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act and foreign laws and regulations, such as the European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, impose certain anti-money laundering requirements on companies that are financial institutions or that provide financial products and services. For these purposes, financial institutions are broadly defined to include money services businesses such as money transmitters, check cashers and sellers or issuers of stored value cards. Examples of anti-money laundering requirements imposed on financial institutions include subscriber identification and verification programs, record retention policies and procedures and transaction reporting. We do not believe that we are a financial institution subject to these laws and regulations based, in part, upon the characteristics of our promotions and our role with respect to the distribution of promotions to subscribers. However, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a division of the U.S. Treasury Department tasked with implementing the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, recently proposed amendments to the scope and requirements for parties involved in stored value or prepaid access cards, including a proposed expansion of financial institutions to include sellers or issuers of prepaid access cards. In the event that this proposal is adopted as proposed, it is possible that our promotions could be considered a financial product and that we could be a financial institution. In the event that we become subject to the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act or any other anti-money laundering law or regulation imposing obligations on us as a money services business, our regulatory compliance costs to meet these obligations would likely increase which could reduce our net income. 31 Risks Related to our Common Stock Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates own a substantial percentage of our common stock, which may allow them to control matters requiring stockholder approval. They could also make business decisions for us with which our stockholders disagree and that cause our stock price to decline. As of March 27, 2013, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 34.8% of our common stock. As a result, if they act in concert, they may be able to control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, and could have the ability to prevent or approve a corporate transaction, even if other stockholders, including those who acquire shares subsequent to these exchange offers, oppose such action. This concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price may continue to be highly volatile, and stockholders may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. Our common stock has been traded on the Nasdaq Global Market (“NASDAQ”) since May 11, 2011. The trading price of our common stock subsequent to our initial public offering has been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · Quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors. · Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments. · Disruption to our operations or those of our marketing affiliates. · The emergence of new sales channels in which we are unable to compete effectively. · Our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis. · Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and even the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. The sale of shares issued upon the exercise or conversion of our derivative securities could also further dilute our current stockholders' investment in our common stock. · Actions taken by public interest groups to target our stockholders, particularly institutional stockholders, seeking to cause those stockholders to divest their holdings of our securities because of the adult-oriented nature of parts of our business. · Commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation. · Any major change in our board or management. · Changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals. · Changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts. · General economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. 32 In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. On November 11, 2011, a putative shareholder class action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida by Greenfield Childrens Partnership, on behalf of investors who purchased our common stock pursuant to our initial public offering, against us, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. and Imperial Capital LLC, the underwriters in our initial public offering, and our directors and certain of our executive officers. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our initial public offering documents contained certain false and misleading statements and seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory damages. On or about November 15, 2012 the court granted the Motion to Dismiss, and plaintiffs filed a Motion for Reconsideration for Leave. We await the court’s decision on this matter. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to all claims, we cannot determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of any future claims, or the timing for their resolution. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, management's efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially affected. Since the minimum bid price of our common stock has fallen below $1.00 and the market value of our publicly held shares has fallen below $15 million, we have received notice that our common stock is subject to delisting by NASDAQ, which could limit your ability to sell shares of our common stock and could limit our ability to raise additional capital. We need to maintain certain financial and corporate governance qualifications in order to maintain the listing of our shares of common stock on NASDAQ. These requirements include that we maintain a minimum bid price for our shares of common stock of $1.00 and that the market value of our publicly held shares is more than $15 million. On August 9, 2012 we received notice from NASDAQ that the market value of our publicly held shares was less than the $15 million minimum, and that the minimum bid price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 for the last 30 consecutive trading days and we were provided 180 calendar days ending on February 5, 2013 in order to regain compliance. We were notified on February 7, 2013 that since we failed to comply with these requirements, our common stock is subject to delisting. We appealed the NASDAQ staff determination and attended a hearing before the NASDAQ Hearings Panel on March 28, 2013. The appeal will stay the delisting of our common stock pending the NASDAQ panel’s decision; however, there can be no assurance that the panel will grant our request for continued listing. If our common stock were to be delisted from NASDAQ, the market for your shares may be limited, and as a result, you may not be able to sell your shares at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, a delisting may make it more difficult or expensive for us to raise additional capital in the future. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws or provisions of Nevada law could prevent or delay a change in control, even if a change of control would benefit our stockholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws, as well as provisions of Nevada law, could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; · authorize our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · require the written request of at least 75% of the voting power of our capital stock in order to compel management to call a special meeting of the stockholders; and · prohibit stockholder action by written consent and require that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders, unless otherwise specifically required by our articles of incorporation or the Nevada Revised Statutes. In addition, the Nevada Revised Statutes contain provisions governing the acquisition of a controlling interest in certain Nevada corporations. These laws provide generally that any person that acquires 20% or more of the outstanding voting shares of certain Nevada corporations in the secondary public or private market must follow certain formalities before such acquisition or they may be denied voting rights, unless a majority of the disinterested stockholders of the corporation elects to restore such voting rights in whole or in part. These laws will apply to us if we have 200 or more stockholders of record, at least 100 of whom have addresses in Nevada, unless our articles of incorporation or our bylaws in effect on the tenth day after the acquisition of a controlling interest provide otherwise. These laws provide that a person acquires a "controlling interest" whenever a person acquires shares of a subject corporation that, but for the application of these provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes, would enable that person to exercise (1) one-fifth or more, but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more, but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors. Once an acquirer crosses one of these thresholds, shares which it acquired in the transaction taking it over the threshold and within the 90 days immediately preceding the date when the acquiring person acquired or offered to acquire a controlling interest become "control shares." These laws may have a chilling effect on certain transactions if our articles of incorporation or our bylaws are not amended to provide that these provisions do not apply to us or to an acquisition of a controlling interest, or if our disinterested stockholders do not confer voting rights in the control shares. 33 Nevada law also provides that if a person is the "beneficial owner" of or more than 10% of the voting power of certain Nevada corporations, such person is an "interested stockholder" and may not engage in any "combination" with the corporation for a period of two years from the date such person first became an interested stockholder, unless: · the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested stockholder was approved by the board of directors of the corporation before the person first became an interested stockholder; or · the combination is approved by the board of directors of the corporation and subsequently approved at a meeting of the stockholders by at least 60% of the outstanding voting power not beneficially owned by the interested stockholder or its affiliates or associates. The definition of the term “combination” is sufficiently broad to cover most significant transactions between the corporation and an interested stockholder. Furthermore, in the absence of prior approval certain restrictions may apply even after such two-year restricted period. These laws generally apply to Nevada corporations with 200 or more stockholders of record, but a Nevada corporation may elect in its articles of incorporation not to be governed by these particular laws. We have made such an election in our articles of incorporation. Nevada law also provides that directors may resist a change or potential change in control if the directors determine that the change is opposed to, or not in the best interest of, the corporation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 