Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common units. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common units could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our StructureFor annual periods from January 1, 2009 to July 15, 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2008 presented in Item 6. Selected Financial Data, our consolidated financial statements will not include meaningful comparisons to prior years.The Exchange Transaction, pursuant to which SPII became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SPH on July 15, 2009, is accounted for as a transaction between entities under common control and as such SPII's accounts are consolidated with SPH for all periods presented. SPH's operations prior to July 16, 2009 and operations related to the assets acquired as a result of the acquisition of SPII as of July 15, 2009 are presented in the consolidated financial statements as “Diversified Industrial, Financial Services and Other”. The Company accounts for the consolidation of SPII in the consolidated financial statements as “Investment Operations” for all periods presented through July 15, 2009. Due to differences between the operating company accounting policies of Diversified Industrial, Financial Services and Other operations and the accounting policies of Investment 13Operations, our consolidated financial statements will not include meaningful comparisons to 2009 and 2008 presented in Item 6. Selected Financial Data.Being classified as an “investment company” would subject us to numerous restrictions and requirements that would be inconsistent with the manner in which we operate our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.We plan to continue to conduct our business and operations in such a manner as not to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). An entity will generally be deemed to be an “investment company” for purposes of the Investment Company Act if: (a) it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (b) absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis (the “40% Test”). Since we operate as a diversified holding company engaged in a variety of operating businesses through our subsidiaries and controlled companies, we do not believe that we are primarily engaged in an investment company type business, nor do we propose to primarily engage in such a business. Our intent to operate in this manner may have a material adverse effect on us, as it may limit our ability to make certain investments or take certain actions or compel us to divest certain holdings or to take or forego certain actions that could otherwise be beneficial to us.If we were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we could suffer adverse consequences, including a need to further adjust our business strategy and assets, including by divesting certain desirable assets immediately to fall outside of the definition or within an exemption, to register as an investment company or to cease operations.Investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be subject to numerous restrictions and requirements that would be inconsistent with the manner in which we operate our business and which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial conditions and prospects, including restrictions on our capital structure and restrictions on our ability to transact business with affiliates, including our operating subsidiaries and controlled companies.As a result of the Exchange Transaction, on July 14, 2009, we could no longer definitively conclude that we passed the 40% Test or were able to rely on any exception from the definition of an investment company. Since then, we have taken reasonable actions to alter our holdings so that we can comply with the 40% Test or a relevant exception as soon as reasonably practicable. These actions have included liquidating certain of our assets and acquiring additional interests in existing or new subsidiaries or controlled companies. Due to market conditions and other factors beyond our reasonable control, we were unable to complete all actions necessary to comply with the 40% Test or a relevant exception within the one-year grace period permitted under the Investment Company Act. As a result, on July 8, 2010, prior to the conclusion of the grace period, we filed an application with the SEC for an extended temporary exemption from the Investment Company Act. On April 27, 2012, the SEC posted a notice indicating an order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. On May 23, 2012, the SEC granted the Company's request. Our revenue, net income and cash flow are highly variable, which may prevent us from achieving steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of the common units to be volatile.Our revenue, net income and cash flow are highly variable. We may experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including changes in the values of our various operations, changes in our operating expenses, changes in asset values, changes in the competitive environment, and general economic and market conditions. Such fluctuations may lead to volatility in the trading price of the common units and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our future performance. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth in net income and cash flow on a quarterly basis, which could lead to volatility in the price of the common units.As our revenue, net income and cash flow are highly variable from period to period, we do not expect to provide any guidance. The lack of guidance may affect the expectations of analysts and could cause increased volatility in the price of the common units. Many of our operating companies are small cap and micro cap companies that are thinly traded and may trade at prices that do not reflect their intrinsic value. Such prices may affect the price at which the common units trade. In addition, some of our holdings are private companies for which there is no trading market.The requirements of being a public entity and sustaining our growth may result in increased costs over prior years.14Effective as of February 13, 2012, we became subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Consequently, we are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. In addition, sustained growth may require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identifying new professionals to join us and to maintain adequate operational and financial systems to support expansion. These requirements may divert management's attention. We may incur significant additional annual expenses related to these steps, including additional directors' and officers' liability insurance, Exchange Act reporting costs, transfer agent fees, salaries and expenses for additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel.Once we are required to comply with all of the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, failure to comply with these requirements may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and have furnished a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting. Beginning with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, our report must contain a statement that our auditors have attested to management's assessment of such internal control over financial reporting. We will be required to provide such auditor's attestation on management's assessment of internal controls as part of our 2013 Form 10-K.If our auditors fail to issue an opinion that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, this may trigger a negative reaction in the financial markets. We may also be required to incur costs to improve our internal control system and hire additional personnel.The unitholders have limited recourse to maintain actions against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager.The Limited Partnership Agreement of SPH, or the “Partnership Agreement,” contains broad indemnification and exculpation provisions that limit the right of a unitholder to maintain an action against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager, or to recover losses or costs incurred by us as a result of their actions or failures to act.If we are dissolved, unitholders may not realize the value that may otherwise be realized over time.We may be dissolved at the election of the Board of Directors by a majority of the directors. If we are dissolved, unitholders may not realize the value that may otherwise be realized over time.Our ability to timely file financial results will require the cooperation of certain of the companies in which we have interests. Our failure to timely file financial statements may have an adverse effect on our business and operations.We require the financial results of certain of the companies in which we have interests in order to report our own financial results. As such, our ability to timely file financial statements will depend on the cooperation of those companies. There can be no assurance that those companies will produce financial results in a timely manner. Our failure to timely file financial statements may have an adverse effect on our business and operations.Our Partnership Agreement contains certain limitations on the voting rights of unitholders.Our Partnership Agreement contains specific provisions that are intended to comply with regulatory limitations on the ownership of our securities as a result of our ownership of WebBank. Under the Partnership Agreement, a person or group that acquires beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the common units without the prior approval of the Board of Directors may lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units in excess of 9.9%. Please see “Material Provisions of Steel Partners Holdings L.P. Partnership Agreement -- Limitations on Voting Rights.” We may have conflicts of interest with the minority shareholders of our businesses and decisions may need to be made by disinterested directors, without the participation of directors or officers associated with the Manager and SPH Services, which may be different from the decisions we would make. Companies in which we have interests but we do not control may make decisions that do not serve our interests and those of our unitholders.The boards of directors and officers of our respective businesses, including directors and officers associated with our Manager and SPH Services, have fiduciary duties to their shareholders. As a result, they may make decisions that are in the best interests of their shareholders generally but which are not necessarily in our best interest or that of our unitholders. In dealings with us, the directors and officers of our businesses may have conflicts of interest and decisions may have to be made without 15their participation. Such decisions may be different from the decisions we would make and may not be in the best interests of our common unitholders, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our assets include interests in companies that we do not control. The majority stakeholders or the management of such companies may make decisions we do not agree with or which do not serve our interests. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of interests held by us may decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may suffer as a result.There are certain interlocking relationships among us and certain affiliates of Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which may present potential conflicts of interest. Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman and a substantial unitholder, is the Chief Executive Officer of our Manager. As of December 31, 2012 Mr. Lichtenstein directly owned approximately 5.2% of our outstanding common units. Affiliates of our Manager beneficially own an additional 22.0% of our outstanding units, although Mr. Lichtenstein disclaims beneficial ownership of any common units not directly held by him. We have entered into transactions and/or agreements with these entities. There can be no assurance that such entities will not have interests in conflict with our own. For more information regarding these relationships and other relationships between us and related parties, see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” We have engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions with our affiliates and may choose to purchase additional securities of entities that we control, and we could have to expend substantial resources in resolving any challenges to those transactions. Generally, Delaware law, under which we are governed, requires that any transactions between us and any of our affiliates be on terms that, when taken as a whole, are substantially as favorable to us as those then reasonably obtainable from a person who is not an affiliate in an arms-length transaction. We believe that the terms of the agreements we have entered into with our affiliates satisfy the requirements of Delaware law, but in the event that one or more parties challenges the fairness of such terms we could have to expend substantial resources in resolving the challenge and we can make no guarantees as to the result. Similarly, we currently own significant equity positions in a number of companies. We may choose in the future to purchase additional securities of such companies. We intend to engage in any such transactions on terms that are fair to all shareholders and are the result of arms-length negotiations. However, one or more minority shareholders may choose to challenge the fairness of such purchases by a controlling shareholder. Defending against such potential challenges may cause us to expend substantial resources in resolving the challenge and we can make no guarantees as to the result.Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest. Certain individual members of our management team may, from time to time, be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by our Manager and its affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved. We, as a diversified holding company, may have substantial limitations on our ability to sell interests in the underlying operating companies.We accumulate significant positions in underlying operating companies and have a significant role in the management of various underlying operating companies. As a result, we may face significant legal and market restrictions on selling our interests in the underlying operating companies. For example, employees of the Manager and SPH Services may also serve as managers or members of the board of directors of the underlying operating companies, and, thus, may receive material and confidential information concerning the operating companies that would preclude us, under federal securities laws, from trading securities of the relevant operating company. Some privately held businesses may be subject to shareholders agreements which may limit our ability to sell our interests in such companies. In addition, we may be limited in our ability to sell securities in an underlying operating company in light of the size of our ownership interest and the absence of liquidity in the market to absorb our ownership interest, or, alternatively, may be required to sell our ownership interest at a discounted and unfavorable price.We hold and expect to continue to hold illiquid assets with a limited market for resale and, therefore, may be unable to dispose of such assets at a time and at a price that we deem desirable.16We may hold assets that have a limited market for resale. We may be unable to dispose of such assets at a time and at a price that we deem desirable. In the event that we desire to sell such assets on an expedited basis, we may not be able to obtain a price for such assets that are equal to or greater than what we could receive if there was a public market for such assets.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe may not be able to fund future acquisitions of new businesses or raise funds for operating expenses due to the lack of availability of debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, which could materially adversely impact our financial condition, business and results of operations.In order to make future acquisitions and fund operations, we may need to raise capital primarily through debt or equity financings. Since the timing and size of acquisitions or the need for additional capital cannot be readily predicted, we may need to obtain funding on short notice to benefit fully from attractive acquisition opportunities or to address business needs. Such funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the level of our indebtedness may impact our ability to borrow. Also, depending on market conditions and investor demand for the common units, we may not be able to raise capital by selling additional common units at prices that we consider to be in our interest. These risks may materially adversely affect our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy successfully and materially adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.We conduct operations or own interests in companies with operations outside of the U.S., which may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with companies that operate solely in the U.S.We have operations or own interests in securities of companies with operations located outside the U.S. and they present certain risks not typically associated with U.S. operations, including risks relating to currency exchange matters, less developed or efficient financial markets than in the U.S., absence of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, differences in the legal and regulatory environment, different publicly available information in respect of companies in non-U.S. markets, economic and political risks, and possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not adversely affect our assets that are held in certain countries or the returns from these assets.If certain of our operating subsidiaries are unable to access funds generated by their respective subsidiaries, such operating subsidiaries may not be able to meet their financial obligations.Because certain of our operating subsidiaries are holding companies that conduct operations through their subsidiaries, such operating subsidiaries depend on those entities for dividends, distributions and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet their financial obligations. Certain of such operating subsidiaries may face restrictions on their ability to transfer cash to their parent company pursuant to the terms of any credit agreement to which they are a party. Failure by one of those subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow and meet the requirements of their respective credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our businesses rely, and may rely, on their intellectual property and licenses to use others' intellectual property, for competitive advantage. If our businesses are unable to protect their intellectual property, are unable to obtain or retain licenses to use others' intellectual property, or if they infringe upon or are alleged to have infringed upon others' intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on their financial condition, business and results of operations.The success of each of our businesses depends in part on its, or licenses to use others' brand names, proprietary technology and manufacturing techniques. These businesses rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect their intellectual property rights. The steps they have taken to protect their intellectual property rights may not prevent third parties from using their intellectual property without their authorization or independently developing intellectual property that is similar. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our businesses' intellectual property rights effectively. Stopping unauthorized use of proprietary information and intellectual property, and defending claims of unauthorized use of others' proprietary information or intellectual property, may be difficult, time-consuming and costly and could subject our businesses to significant liability for damages and invalidate their property rights. Such unauthorized use could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage our businesses have developed, cause them to lose sales or otherwise harm their business.If our businesses are unable to continue the technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products and services, their financial condition, business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.17The industries in which our businesses operate experience periodic technological changes and ongoing product improvements. Their results of operations depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product upgrades and their ability to integrate new technologies. Our future growth will depend on their ability to gauge the direction of, and effectively respond to, the technological progress in key end-use markets and upon their ability to successfully develop new generations of products. Our businesses must make ongoing capital investments and may need to seek better educated and trained workers, who may not be available in sufficient numbers. Failure to effectively respond to technological developments may result in reduced sales and sunk developmental costs. We are dependent on digital technologies to conduct our daily operations and maintain confidential information.The Company relies on information technology systems to both manage its daily operations and to secure its intellectual property. A failure in or breach of operational or informational security systems or infrastructure, or those of its third party vendors and other service providers, as a result of information system failures or cyber attack, could disrupt business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, including customer and vendor lists, damage its reputation and investor confidence, increase security and remediation costs and cause losses, including potential lawsuits, all of which could have a material adverse effect on its businesses, financial condition and results of operations.We do not have long-term contracts with all of our customers and clients, the loss of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.Our businesses are based primarily upon individual orders and sales with our customers and clients and not long-term supply contracts. As such, our customers and clients could cease using services or buying products at any time and for any reason and we will have no recourse in the event a customer or client no longer wants to use our businesses' services or purchase products from us. If a significant number of our customers or clients elect not to use such services or purchase products, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.Our businesses are and may be subject to federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations that expose them to potential financial liability. Complying with applicable environmental laws requires significant resources, and if our businesses fail to comply, they could be subject to substantial liability.Some of the facilities and operations of our businesses are, and may be, subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations pertaining to the handling, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes, and hazardous materials and wastes, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. Any material violations of these laws can lead to substantial liability, revocations of discharge permits, fines or penalties, which could negatively impact our financial condition, business and results of operations.Defects in the products provided by our businesses could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in reduced demand for our businesses' products and/or liability claims against our businesses.Some of our businesses manufacture products to customer specifications that are highly complex and critical to customer operations. Defects in products could result in product liability suits, compensation for damages, or a reduction or cancellation of future purchases due to customer dissatisfaction. If these defects occur frequently, our reputation may be impaired. Any of these outcomes could negatively impact our financial condition, business and results of operations.Some of our businesses are subject to certain risks associated with the movement of businesses offshore.Some of our businesses are potentially at risk of losing business to competitors operating in lower cost countries. An additional risk is the movement offshore of some of our businesses' customers, leading them to procure products or services from more closely located companies. Either of these factors could negatively impact our financial condition, business and results of operations.Loss of key customers of some of our businesses could negatively impact our financial condition.Some of our businesses have significant exposure to certain key customers, the loss of which could negatively impact our financial condition, business and results of operations.Our business strategy includes acquisitions which entail numerous risks.18Our business strategy and the strategy of our businesses includes acquisitions and entails several risks, including the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and the need to finance such acquisitions with additional equity and/or debt. Any future acquisitions may also result in material changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities or the assets and liabilities of our businesses and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common units. In addition, once found, acquisitions entail further risks, including unanticipated costs and liabilities of the acquired businesses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses; negative effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and losing key employees of the acquired businesses.HNH sponsors a defined benefit pension plan which could subject it to substantial cash funding requirements in the future.HNH's ongoing operating cash flow requirements consist of arranging for the funding of the minimum requirements of its defined benefit plan (the "WHX Pension Plan") and paying HNH's administrative costs. The significant decline in market value of stocks and other investments starting in 2008 across a cross-section of financial markets contributed to an unfunded pension liability of the WHX Pension Plan, which totaled $217,100 as of December 31, 2012 and $186,200 as of December 31, 2011. In addition, a reduction in interest rates has caused a change in the discount rate that is used to value the pension liability on the consolidated balance sheet. HNH expects to have required minimum pension plan contributions to the WHX Pension Plan for 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and thereafter of $13,400, $19,200, $20,400, $17,400, $16,900 and $49,000, respectively. Such required future contributions are determined based upon assumptions regarding such matters as discount rates on future obligations, assumed rates of return on plan assets and legislative changes. Actual future pension costs and required funding obligations will be affected by changes in the factors and assumptions described in the previous sentence, as well as other changes such as any plan termination.Difficult economic, market and industry specific conditions may adversely affect our operations, which could materially reduce our revenue, cash flow and asset value, and adversely affect our financial condition.We operate in a variety of competitive industries and market sectors, which are susceptible to economic and industry specific volatility. Our operations and assets are materially affected by conditions in the financial, manufacturing and energy markets, as well as economic conditions throughout the world that are outside our control, such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic and/or uncertainty, changes in laws, trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances. These factors may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity and the value of our operations and assets, and we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these market conditions.Our operations' revenues and assets could also be affected by a continued economic downturn. Our operations may also have difficulty expanding and be unable to meet our debt service and pension obligations or other expenses as they become due. In addition, during periods of adverse economic conditions, it may be more difficult and costly or impossible to obtain funding for our operations. Furthermore, such conditions could also increase the risk of default with respect to our operations that have significant debt.Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our liquidity or financial condition.On July 21, 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended primarily to overhaul the financial regulatory framework following the global financial crisis and will impact all financial institutions, including WebBank. The Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions that has, among other things, established a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, will establish a systemic risk regulator, consolidate certain federal bank regulators and impose increased corporate governance and executive compensation requirements. While many of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institutions significantly larger than ours, it will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us.The Dodd-Frank Act also required the Government Accountability Officer (“GAO”) to conduct a study, within 18 months of the enactment, of the various exemptions in the Bank Holding Company Act for certain types of depository institutions, including industrial banks such as WebBank. SPH is not regulated as a bank holding company as a result of this exemption. The GAO completed its study in January, 2012. It is not clear, what impact, if any, the GAO study would have on the continued availability of this exemption.In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act, the so-called “Volcker Rule,” which generally restricts certain banking entities, and their subsidiaries or affiliates, from engaging in proprietary trading 19activities and owning equity in or sponsoring any private equity or hedge fund. The Volcker Rule became effective July 21, 2012. The draft implementing regulations for the Volcker Rule were issued by various regulatory agencies on October 11 and 12, 2011. Under the regulations, we (or our affiliates) may be restricted from engaging in proprietary trading, investing in third party hedge or private equity funds or sponsoring new funds unless we qualify for an exemption from the rule. We will not know the full impact of the Volcker Rule on our operations or financial condition until the final implementing regulations are adopted sometime in 2013.Furthermore, effective July 21, 2011, all companies that directly or indirectly control an FDIC-insured bank are required to serve as a source of financial strength for such institution. As a result, SPH could be called upon by the FDIC to infuse additional capital into WebBank to the extent that WebBank fails to satisfy its capital requirements. Currently, WebBank meets or exceeds all such requirements.Further, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. We cannot predict whether additional legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Increased volatility in raw materials costs and availability may continue to reduce revenues and profitability in our diversified industrial businesses.Certain of our Diversified Industrial operations are subject to risks associated with increased volatility in raw material prices and availability of key raw materials. If the price for raw materials continues to increase and our operations are not able to pass these price increases to their customers, or are unable to obtain key raw materials, our results of operations may be negatively impacted.Our energy segment is highly dependent on the activity level of the North American oil and gas industry. Our markets may be adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control. The level of oil and natural gas exploration and production activity in the United States is volatile. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, or a decrease in the development rate of reserves in our market areas, weakness in oil and natural gas prices, or our customers' perceptions that oil and natural gas prices will decrease in the future, could result in a reduction in the utilization of our equipment and result in lower revenues or rates for the services of our Energy segment. Our customers' willingness to undertake these activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by many factors over which we have no control. We and our businesses operate in highly competitive markets.Many of our competitors and the competitors of our businesses are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds than we or our businesses do and access to financing sources that may not be available to us or our businesses. In addition, some of our competitors and the competitors of our businesses may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of business opportunities than we or our businesses can.Risks Related to Our ManagerWe depend on Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager and Jack Howard, the President of the Manager, the loss of whose services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results and financial condition.Our success depends on the efforts, skills, reputation and business contacts of Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager and Jack Howard, the President of the Manager. While the key members of the Manager have worked for the Manager and its affiliates for many years, our Manager does not have any employment agreements with any of the key members of its management team and their continued service is not guaranteed. The loss of the services of Mr. Lichtenstein or Mr. Howard could have a material adverse effect on our asset value, revenues, net income and cash flows and could harm our ability to maintain or grow our existing operations or pursue additional opportunities in the future.Certain members of the Manager's management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest.20Certain individual members of the Manager's management team are involved in the management of other businesses. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved.The interests of our Manager may not be aligned with our interests or those of our unitholders.Our Manager receives a quarterly Management Fee at a rate of 1.5% of total partner's capital, payable on the first day of each quarter, subject to quarterly adjustment. Our Manager is entitled to receive a Management Fee regardless of our net income. In addition and as more fully described in “Management Agreement - Management Fees and Incentive Compensation”, our Manager was granted certain incentive units to receive Class B common units of SPH. The Manager may consider entering into or recommending riskier transactions that represent a potential higher reward in order for the Manager's units to be profitable. Any such riskier investment decisions or recommendations, if unsuccessful, could result in losses to us and a decline in the value of the common units.We cannot determine the amount of the Management Fee that will be paid over time with any certainty. The Management Fee is calculated by reference in part to our total partner's capital. Our total partner's capital will be impacted by the performance of our businesses and other businesses we may acquire in the future, as well as the issuance of additional common units. Changes in our total partner's capital and in the resulting Management Fee could be significant, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if our performance declines, assuming our total partner's capital, remains the same, the Management Fee will increase as a percentage of our net income.Our Manager's liability is limited under the Management Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.Under the Management Agreement, our Manager, its members, officers, employees, affiliates, agents and legal representatives are not liable for, and we have agreed to indemnify such persons from any loss or expense, including without limitations, any judgment, settlement, reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs and expenses incurred in connection with the defense of any actual or threatened proceeding, other than losses resulting from willful misconduct or gross negligence in the performance of such indemnified person's obligations and duties. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.Risks Related to our Common UnitsWe may issue additional common units in the future without the consent of unitholders and at a discount to the market price of such common units. In particular, sales of significant amounts of the common units may cause the price of the common units to decline.Under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, additional common units may be issued without the consent of unitholders at a discount to the market price. In addition, other classes of securities may be issued with rights that are senior to or which otherwise have preferential rights to the rights of the common units. Sales of significant amounts of the common units in the public market or the perception that such sales of significant amounts may occur could adversely affect its market price. Moreover, the perceived risk of any potential dilution could cause common unit holders to attempt to sell their common units and investors to “short” the common units, a practice in which an investor sells common units that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase common units later at a lower price to cover the sale. Any event that would cause the number of common units being offered for sale to increase would likely cause the common units' market price to further decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional common units in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.Risks Related to TaxationAll statutory references in this section are to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code.”Our unitholders may be subject to U.S. federal and other income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether they receive any cash distributions from us.21It is anticipated that we will be treated, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. Our unitholders will be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income tax on their allocable share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. We do not anticipate making any additional cash distributions or paying any cash dividends. Accordingly, our unitholders may be required to make tax payments in connection with their ownership of common units that significantly exceed their cash distributions in any given year.Our tax treatment is not assured. If we are taxed as a corporation, it could adversely impact our results of operations.A partnership is not a taxable entity and distributions by a partnership to a partner are generally not taxable to the partnership or the partner unless the amount of cash distributed to such partner exceeds the partner's adjusted basis in its partnership interest. Section 7704 provides that generally publicly traded partnerships are taxed as corporations. However, an exception, referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception,” exists with respect to publicly traded partnerships of which 90 percent or more of the gross income for every taxable year consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code. We expect that we will meet the Qualifying Income Exception. However, the Qualifying Income Exception will not apply if we register, or are required to register, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.If the Qualifying Income Exception is not available to us, then we will be treated as a corporation instead of a partnership. In that event, the deemed incorporation of SPH should be tax-free, unless the corporation is an investment company for tax purposes and the partners are treated as diversifying their interests. If we were taxed as a corporation, (i) our net income would be taxed at corporate income tax rates, thereby substantially reducing our profitability, (ii) our unitholders would not be allowed to deduct their share of losses of SPH and (iii) distributions to our unitholders, other than liquidating distributions, would constitute dividends to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, and would be taxable as such.Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available.The U.S. federal income tax treatment of our unitholders depends in some instances on interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our Partnership Agreement permits our General Partner to modify it from time to time, including the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction (including unrealized gain and unrealized loss to the extent allowable under U.S. federal income tax law), without the consent of our unitholders, to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation or to preserve the uniformity of our common units. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all unitholders. In addition, we formed a subsidiary partnership, to which we contributed certain of our assets, or the “Subsidiary Partnership.” To preserve the uniformity of common units, we (but not the Subsidiary Partnership) will make an election permitted under Section 754 and we will adopt the remedial allocation method under Section 704(c) with respect to items of income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to assets contributed to us (which we will contribute to the Subsidiary Partnership), to account for any difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of contribution, or attributable to the “book-up” or “book-down” of our assets prior to their contribution to the Subsidiary Partnership, or while they were held by the Subsidiary Partnership, to account for the difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of a mark-to-market event. We intend generally to make allocations under Section 704(c) to our unitholders in accordance with their respective percentage interests. However, built-in gain or built-in loss in existence and allocable to the assets we contributed to the Subsidiary Partnership, when recognized, will be allocated to our unitholders as of the contribution date. We intend to prepare our tax returns on the basis that buyers of common units from such unitholders will not inherit such unitholders' built-in gains or built-in losses as of that date as a result of the election under Section 754. However, it is not clear whether this position will be upheld if challenged by the IRS. While we believe it represents the right result, there is no law directly on point.We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS might challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We will apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, loss, deduction and credit to our unitholders in a manner that reflects such unitholders' beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in unitholder ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. Our allocations of items of taxable income and loss between transferors and transferees of our common units generally will be 22determined annually, will be prorated on a monthly basis and will be subsequently apportioned among the unitholders in proportion to the number of common units owned by each of them as of the opening of trading of our common units on any national exchange on which we are listed, on the first business day of every month. As a result, a unitholder transferring common units may be allocated items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit realized after the date of transfer. However, those assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable U.S. federal income tax requirements. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we might be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit among our unitholders in a manner that adversely affects them.Non-U.S. persons face unique U.S. tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.We generally do not intend to engage in activities that will cause us to be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, it is possible that we may acquire the stock of U.S. corporations owning significant U.S. real property. The gain from the sale of the stock of such corporations may be treated as effectively connected income (“ECI”) with respect to non-U.S. unitholders. In addition, it is possible that we may acquire interests in U.S. real property (other than through corporations) as long as the income from the property is “qualifying income” under Section 7704. The income from such real property, including the gain from the sale of such property, may be ECI to non-U.S. unitholders. To the extent our income is treated as ECI, non-U.S. unitholders generally will be subject to withholding tax on their allocable share of such income when such income is distributed, will be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year reporting their allocable share of income effectively connected with such trade or business and any other income treated as ECI, and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular U.S. tax rates on any such income (state and local income taxes and filings may also apply in that event). Non-U.S. unitholders that are corporations may also be subject to a 30 percent branch profits tax on their allocable share of such income, which branch profits tax may be reduced or eliminated pursuant to an income tax treaty.Certain passive income received by us, such as U.S. source dividends and interest that does not qualify as “portfolio interest,” that is allocable to non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax of 30 percent (in the absence of relief under an income tax treaty). We are required to pay to the IRS such withholding tax on such income allocable to non-U.S. unitholders even if we do not make distributions to them. We will apply this withholding tax in a manner intended to preserve the uniformity of our common units.Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.A holder of common units that is a tax-exempt organization may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation to the extent that its allocable share of our income consists of unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). We may borrow money. A tax-exempt partner of a partnership may be treated as earning UBTI if the partnership regularly engages in a trade or business that is unrelated to the exempt function of the tax-exempt partner, if the partnership derives income from debt-financed property or if the tax-exempt organization's partnership interest itself is debt-financed.Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units.In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct activities or own property, if any, now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.