Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. A material or extended decline in expenditures by oil and natural gas companies due to a decline or volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, or a decrease in demand for crude oil and natural gas for other reasons, may reduce demand for our services and substantially reduce our profitability or result in our incurring losses. The profitability of our operations depends upon conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, and particularly the level of natural gas exploration, development and production activity in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Crude oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity because our customers’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Commodity prices in the Gulf of Mexico are directly influenced by many factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for crude oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering crude oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico, and the relative cost of onshore production or importation of natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • size of crude oil or natural gas reserves in the shallow waters in the Gulf of Mexico; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • government regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions including severe weather as a result of climate change; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the level of oil and natural gas production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels and the competitive position of natural gas as a source of energy compared with other energy sources; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; and • the worldwide military and political environment and uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East and other oil and natural gas producing regions. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could have a negative impact on the economies of the United States and those of other countries. The ongoing slowdown in economic activity has reduced worldwide demand for energy and 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements could result in an extended period of lower crude oil and natural gas prices. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices combined with the inability of our customers to obtain financing for drilling projects has depressed the levels of exploration, development and production activity. Even during periods of high commodity prices, customers may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. These factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, decrease daily rates and utilization of our rigs and limit our future growth prospects. Any significant decrease in daily rates or utilization of our rigs could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or are otherwise required by our contracts. Absent increased utilization of our rigs in Mexico, our business is exclusively dependent on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry in the shallow waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which is significantly affected by often volatile natural gas prices. Absent increased utilization of our rigs in Mexico, our business is exclusively dependent on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in the shallow waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. As of February 26, 2010, none of our drilling rigs were located or working in Mexico. We do not anticipate that we will have an opportunity to bid our rigs for work in Mexico again until late 2010 or 2011. The drilling market in the shallow waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico is strongly influenced by our customer expectations of future natural gas prices. In particular, as the price of natural gas decreased, we experienced a weakened demand for our services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Generally, our customers accelerate their drilling programs in higher natural gas price environments and delay or curtail their drilling programs when natural gas prices decline. In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, drilling contracts are generally short-term, and oil and gas companies tend to respond quickly to upward or downward changes in natural gas prices. Our fleet utilization and dayrates in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are also influenced by competing sources of natural gas, such as shale plays, access to capital for small and medium sized exploration and development companies and other drilling service providers, seasonality of the market driven by the risk of hurricanes, and the number and timing of rigs moving into and out of the United States. Any further reduction in the demand for our drilling services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could erode dayrates and utilization rates for our rigs and adversely affect our financial results. If our cash flow from operations does not improve, our current cash flow and holdings of cash may not be adequate to continue our operations as currently conducted. Our liquidity is highly dependent upon the utilization level of our rigs, dayrates, and our capital expenditures. Based on our current rate of expenditures, our current rig utilization levels, cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate to continue our operations as currently conducted. Utilization for our rigs continues to be low at 40% as of February 23, 2010, due to lack of demand for our rigs. Current contracted dayrates for our rigs are also lower as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. In 2009, we operated at a cash flow deficit subsequent to the spin-off date. If our low rig utilization continues through 2010 or if we are unable to obtain higher dayrates, and we are unable to make corresponding decreases in our expenditures, we may also operate at a cash flow deficit in 2010. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash on hand of $78.3 million, a decrease of $11.2 million since September 30, 2009. Due to conditions in the credit markets, an enhanced credit facility may not be available to us to address additional liquidity needs. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing under these circumstances. We are evaluating alternatives to increase our capital, delaying capital expenditures, evaluating potential sales of assets and evaluating further cost reduction initiatives. We cannot assure you, however, that additional sources of financing would be available to us on commercially favorable terms, or at all, should our capital requirements exceed cash available from operations and existing cash, and cash available under our current credit facility. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have received and are contesting tax assessments from the Mexican government and we could receive additional assessments in the future. We received tax assessments from the Mexican government related to the operations of certain of our entities for the tax years 2001 through 2003. Each assessment denies our right to claim certain deductions in our tax returns for those years. For these cases, including penalty, interest and inflation adjustments and an assessment from the Mexican government for a Pride entity that we are required to indemnify under our separation terms, the total contested amount is approximately 592 million Mexican pesos, or approximately $45 million as of December 31, 2009. We have contested these assessments in the Mexican court system. Mexican law requires taxpayers generally to provide a suitable guarantee or collateral against contested tax liabilities in order to prevent such liabilities from being due and payable. Prior to our spin-off, Pride had provided surety bonds or letters of credit for all of the contested cases and Seahawk assumed the indemnity obligations for the surety bonds and letters of credit. Renewal of a letter of credit for one of these assessments totaling $2.3 million was due in January 2010 and we currently have elected not to replace or renew the letter of credit or otherwise collateralize the contested assessment related to one of our dormant entities that has no material operations or net assets. The provision of a guarantee or collateral for the amount of the assessment is not required to contest assessments with the Mexican tax authority or in the Mexican courts. The Mexican tax authority is entitled to certain limited collection activities against the assessed subsidiary when suitable guarantee or collateral is not provided when due and, we believe, does not have the authority to collect assets of subsidiaries that have not been assessed. If the Mexican tax authority were to initiate collection efforts against assets of subsidiaries that have not been assessed, our liquidity and results of operations could be materially affected. In January 2010, we received a favorable ruling for one contested case of approximately $6 million; however, Mexican tax authorities have appealed the decision and under Mexican law the favorable ruling does not set precedent for any of our other contested cases. We have also received additional tax assessments for the tax years 2003 and 2004 related to our entities, including entities which are dormant and have no material operations or net assets at December 31, 2009, in the amount of 1,173 million Mexican pesos, or approximately $90 million, which includes penalty, interest and inflation adjustments and an assessment from the Mexican government for a Pride entity that we are required to indemnify. We have refuted these assessments through an administrative appeal to the Mexican tax authority. We are not required to provide surety bonds or a suitable guarantee or collateral when an assessment is under administrative appeal to the Mexican tax authority. We anticipate that the Mexican tax authorities will rule on the pending administrative appeals in 2010 at which point we will likely contest these assessments in the Mexican court system. We are also evaluating the consequences of not providing a suitable guarantee or collateral for certain assessments against our dormant subsidiaries which have no material operations or net assets at the time the bond is due, but anticipate that we will provide suitable collateral for subsidiaries with ongoing operations. Pursuant to the tax support agreement between us and Pride that we entered into at the time of the spin-off from Pride, Pride has agreed to provide a guarantee or indemnity in favor of the issuer of any surety bonds or other collateral issued for our account in respect of the additional Mexican tax assessments for tax years 2003 and 2004 made prior to the date of the spin-off to the extent requested by us. On July 31, 2012, July 31, 2013, July 31, 2014 and August 24, 2015, we may be required to provide substitute credit support for certain portions of the collateral guaranteed or indemnified by Pride, so that Pride’s obligations are terminated in their entirety by August 24, 2015. Throughout the term of these bonds, and pursuant to the tax support agreement, we will pay Pride a fee based on the credit support provided. We are not obligated to utilize Pride’s credit support for the provision of surety bonds or other collateral. The tax support agreement with Pride does not obligate Pride to guarantee or indemnify the issuer of any surety bonds or other collateral issued in respect of future tax assessments. Additionally, if we are not able to provide credit support for the surety bonds or other collateral for which Pride does not provide, and Pride is not obligated to provide credit support under the tax support agreement, the full amount of the contested tax assessed will become due and payable. The failure to replace Pride’s credit support for existing assessments as and when required by the tax support agreement would likely result in a default under the tax support agreement and our revolving credit facility. Our inability to provide required financial security to the Mexican tax authority for future assessments would likely result in a default 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements under the tax support agreement and would result in a default under our revolving credit facility if such assessment was assessed against one of our material subsidiaries, as defined in our revolving credit facility. If any of these events were to occur, our liquidity and results of operations could be materially affected. We anticipate that the Mexican government will make additional assessments contesting similar deductions for other open tax years. If the Mexican tax authorities were to apply a similar methodology on the primary issue in the dispute to remaining open tax years, the total amount of incremental future tax assessments is estimated to be $100 million as of December 31, 2009. We may be required to provide additional security to the extent assessments are related to active subsidiaries and will be contested, which may include our five rigs that are not collateralized under our revolving credit facility or other forms of security permissible by the Mexican tax authority. While we intend to contest these assessments and any future assessments vigorously, we cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome, which may take several years. We are not currently operating in Mexico or any other non-U.S. market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to resume operations in Mexico or expand into other international markets. If we are able to expand into other international markets, we may incur additional risks. We are not currently operating in Mexico or any other non-U.S. market. Since February 3, 2010, none of our drilling rigs have been working in Mexico. Since the second half of 2009, regulatory and financial uncertainty regarding PEMEX’s drilling programs and development budget has led to decreased demand by PEMEX for drilling rigs operating in the Mexican portion of the Gulf of Mexico, including our drilling rigs. In addition, PEMEX has issued operating guidelines that favor high-specification jackups over our mat-supported rigs. We do not anticipate that we will have an opportunity to bid our rigs for work in Mexico again until late 2010 or 2011. We cannot assure you that any bids that we submit will be awarded to us or that we will have any future contracting opportunities in Mexico. We may not be able to expand into other international markets. As discussed in the risk factor above entitled “Our ability to move some of our rigs to other regions is limited,” our rigs, which are mat-supported, are less capable than other types of rigs in most areas outside of the Gulf of Mexico. If we are able to expand into other international markets, non-U.S. contract drilling operations are subject to various foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to the operation of drilling rigs, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and natural gas exploration and development, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, the use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors and duties on the importation and exportation of drilling rigs and other equipment. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. If we resume operations in Mexico or commence operations in any other non-U.S. market, we may be subject to additional risks not associated with our U.S. operations. These risks may include, among other things: foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; political, social and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; work stoppages; wage and price controls; and other forms of economic conditions that are beyond our control. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The worldwide financial recession and credit crisis that began in mid -2008 has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements extended worldwide economic recession or depression. This credit crisis and the related instability in the global financial system have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The financial and credit crisis could have an impact on the lenders under our revolving credit facility, on our customers or on our vendors, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Certain customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our contract drilling business is subject to the usual risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. In Mexico, our primary customer has been PEMEX for which we are doing no current drilling. PEMEX accounted for 72%, 64% and 56% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We do not have a master agreement with PEMEX; rather, PEMEX has contracted for our services on a rig-by-rig basis. In the United States, our top five customers accounted for 67% of our 2009 revenue in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. In the U.S., we provide drilling services primarily to independent oil and natural gas producers and drilling service providers pursuant to short-term contracts, resulting in potential instability in our customer base and contract status in that region. Our customer base in the U.S. primarily consists of independent oil and natural gas producers and drilling service providers, and contracts in the U.S. tend to be short-term or well-to-well contracts. As a result, our U.S. customer base is subject to frequent turnover, and the contracted status of our rigs in that region changes rapidly. Additionally, our customers in the U.S. generally have less capital resources available to perform their obligations owed to us relative to larger oil and gas companies or state-owned entities. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and repair are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We make significant upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our rigs from time to time, particularly in light of the age of our rigs. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. The average age of our rigs is over 29 years. In 2010, we expect our capital expenditures for our rigs and equipment to be approximately $8 million. All projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • client acceptance delays; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • work stoppages and other labor disputes; • latent damages or deterioration to equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • adverse weather conditions; and • inability to obtain required permits or approvals. Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the delivery of rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair may, in many cases, result in delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause our customer to renegotiate the drilling contract for the rig or terminate or shorten the term of the contract under applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade and refurbishment projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. Our rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification jackup rigs. These higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than our rigs, particularly during market downturns. Some of our competitors have jackup fleets with generally higher specification rigs than those in our fleet. Particularly during market downturns when there is decreased rig demand, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification rigs. Some of our significant customers, including PEMEX, may also begin to require higher specification rigs for the types of projects that currently utilize our lower specification rigs, which could materially affect the utilization of these rigs. In the past, our rigs have been stacked earlier in the cycle of decreased rig demand than our competitors’ higher specification rigs and have been reactivated later in the cycle, which has adversely impacted our business and could be repeated in the future. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to changes in market conditions. Furthermore, in recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deeper water drilling programs and deeper formations, including deep natural gas prospects, requiring higher specification rigs. This trend is expected to continue and could result in a material decline in demand for the rigs in our fleet. Under the terms of the non-competition covenant in the master separation agreement with Pride, we are not permitted to own or operate any rig with a water depth rating of more than 500 feet, subject to certain exceptions, for three years following the spin-off, which was effective on August 24, 2009. An oversupply of comparable or higher specification jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico could depress the demand and contract prices for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Demand and contract prices customers pay for our rigs also are affected by the total supply of comparable rigs available for service in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico. During prior periods of high utilization and dayrates, industry participants have increased the supply of rigs by ordering the construction of new units. This has often created an oversupply of drilling units and has caused a decline in utilization and dayrates when the rigs enter the market, sometimes for extended periods of time as rigs have been absorbed into the active fleet. As of February 26, 2010, there are approximately 44 jackups under construction and 13 on order that are expected to enter the international market, six of which are being built in shipyards in the Gulf of Mexico region, and accordingly, would have relatively low mobilization costs to operate in the Gulf of Mexico. All of these rigs are considered to be of a higher specification than our rigs, because generally they are larger, have greater deckloads, have water depth ratings of 250 feet or greater and have an independent leg design, as opposed to being mat-supported. Independent leg rigs are variable deckload and are better suited for use in stronger currents or uneven seabed conditions. Most of the new rigs available in the first half of 2010 and beyond are currently without contracts, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. In addition, our competitors’ stacked rigs may re-enter the market. The entry into service of newly constructed, upgraded or reactivated units will increase market supply and could reduce, or curtail a strengthening of, our dayrates in the affected markets as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any further increase in construction of new drilling units may negatively affect utilization and dayrates. In addition, the new construction of high specification rigs, as well as changes in our competitors’ drilling rig fleets, could require us to make material additional capital investments to keep our rig fleet competitive. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to move some of our rigs to other regions is limited. Most jackup rigs can be moved from one region to another, and in this sense the contract drilling market is a global market. The supply and demand balance for jackup rigs may vary somewhat from region to region, and because the cost to move a rig is significant, there is limited availability of rig-moving vessels and some rigs are designed to work in specific regions. However, significant variations between regions tend not to exist on a long-term basis due to the ability to move rigs. Our rigs, which are mat-supported, are less capable than independent leg jackup rigs of managing variable sea floor conditions found in most areas outside the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our ability to move these rigs to other regions in response to changes in market conditions is limited. Our industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. Our industry is highly competitive. Our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing, safety record and technical expertise are key factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Rig availability, location and specifications also can be significant factors in the determination. Some of our competitors in the drilling industry are larger than we are and have rigs with generally higher specifications, and greater resources than we have. In addition, recent mergers within the oil and natural gas industry have reduced the number of available customers, resulting in increased competition for projects. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our revenues and profitability. Historically, the offshore service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand, limited rig supply and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of low demand and excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs, particularly lower specification rigs like ours, being idle for long periods of time. We may be required to stack rigs or enter into lower dayrate contracts in response to market conditions. Due to the short-term nature of most of our drilling contracts, changes in market conditions can quickly affect our business. As a result of the cyclical nature of our industry, our results of operations have been volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that our rigs’ carrying value may not be recoverable. Our business is conducted in the shallow water Gulf of Mexico, a mature region that could result in less drilling activity in the area and thereby reduce demand for our services. The shallow water region of the Gulf of Mexico is a mature oil and natural gas production region that has experienced substantial seismic survey and exploration activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and natural gas prospects in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the average size of Gulf of Mexico discoveries has declined significantly since the early 1990s. In addition, the amount of natural gas production in the shallow water region of the Gulf of Mexico has declined over the last several years. As a result of the diminished discovery potential, oil and natural gas companies may be unable to obtain acceptable financing necessary to drill prospects in this region. The decrease in the size of oil and natural gas prospects, the decrease in production or the failure to obtain such financing may result in reduced drilling activity in the shallow water region of the Gulf of Mexico and reduced demand for our services. Further, U.S. demand for natural gas is also supplied by onshore natural gas exploration and development and importation of liquefied natural gas. Significant onshore discoveries of natural gas, increased onshore production or development of new, or expansion of existing, liquefied natural gas facilities in the U.S. could also reduce demand for our offshore drilling services. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Consolidation of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, on our schedule or at all. We rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for our operations. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing of key supplies. We may not be able to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times we need them or at all. These cost increases or delays could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial position. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the skilled and other labor required for our operations intensifies as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets or under construction increases, creating upward pressure on wages. Additionally, in the master separation agreement we entered into with Pride at the time of our spin-off from Pride, we have agreed to refrain from directly soliciting, recruiting or hiring employees of Pride without Pride’s consent for one year after the spin-off, which was effective on August 24, 2009. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality, safety and timeliness of our work. We plan to implement recruiting and training programs in an effort to meet our anticipated personnel needs. These efforts may be unsuccessful, and competition for skilled personnel could materially impact our business by limiting or affecting the quality and safety of our operations or further increasing our costs. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and such laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could materially and adversely affect our business. Pride is conducting an investigation into allegations of improper payments to foreign government officials, as well as corresponding accounting entries and internal control issues. The outcome and impact of this investigation are unknown at this time. The Audit Committee of Pride’s Board of Directors, through independent outside counsel, has undertaken an investigation of potential violations of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) in several of its international operations. With respect to the Mexico operations included in our consolidated and combined financial statements, this investigation has found evidence suggesting that payments, which may violate the FCPA, were made to government officials in Mexico aggregating less than $150,000. The evidence to date regarding these payments suggests that payments were made beginning in 2002 through early 2006 (a) to one or 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements more government officials in Mexico in connection with the clearing of a jackup rig and equipment through customs, the movement of personnel through immigration or the acceptance of a jackup rig under a drilling contract; and (b) with respect to the potentially improper entertainment of government officials in Mexico. Pride has voluntarily disclosed information found in the investigation to the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the SEC. We have been informed by Pride that it is continuing to cooperate with these authorities as the investigation and FCPA compliance reviews continue. However, we are not a party to nor are we involved in any of the discussions with the DOJ or the SEC. Pride has announced that as of December 31, 2009 it has accrued $56.2 million related to a potential resolution with the DOJ and the SEC. However, despite this announcement we still do not have sufficient information to predict what, if any, actions may be taken by the DOJ, the SEC, any other applicable government or other authorities, or our customers, or the effect the actions may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, on our consolidated and combined financial statements or on our business. Pursuant to the master separation agreement we entered into with Pride at the time of our spin-off from Pride, we are responsible for any liabilities, costs or expenses related to, arising out of, or resulting from Pride’s current FCPA investigation to the extent related to Pride’s and our operations in Mexico (subject to certain exceptions) except that our responsibility to indemnify Pride for fines, penalties or profit disgorgement payable to the United States government will not exceed $1 million. At the date of our spin-off from Pride, we recognized an indemnity obligation to Pride of approximately $0.3 million. In the event that a disposition includes the appointment of a compliance monitor or consultant or any similar remedy for our company, we are responsible for the costs associated with such monitor, consultant or similar remedy. We could also face fines, sanctions, and other penalties from authorities in Mexico, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations and/or the seizure of rigs or other assets. Our customer in Mexico could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigation could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees, and to access the capital markets. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our drilling contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience downtime, operational difficulties, or safety-related issues. All our contracts with major customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the rig is a total loss, if the rig is not delivered to the customer within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. Some of our contracts with our customers include terms allowing them to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of our other contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. If our customers cancel some of our significant contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We can provide no assurance that our current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2009, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $14.8 million for future revenues under firm commitments, all of which is expected to be realized during the remainder of 2010. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above or in connection with the ongoing financial crisis. Our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. We have a two-year, $36 million revolving credit facility that has no outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2009. Borrowings under the credit facility may only be used to fund reactivation capital expenditures and for related working capital purposes. The credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to: • make investments and other restricted payments, including dividends and other distributions; • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • restrict dividend or other payments by our subsidiaries to us; • sell our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • make capital expenditures. Our credit agreement also requires us to maintain minimum ratios with respect to our financial condition. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations and capital needs and to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default in respect of the related debt. If a default were to occur, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that debt. In order to execute our growth strategy, we may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Our business is capital-intensive and, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to execute our growth strategy and to fund capital expenditures. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to the holdings of existing stockholders may result. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund maintenance requirements and acquisitions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. The spin-off could result in substantial tax liability. The terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into with Pride at the time of our spin-off from Pride requires that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries take or fail to take any action that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin-off and certain related transactions from qualifying for tax-free treatment under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Such actions include but are not limited to any of the following actions within the two-year period following August 24, 2009, which was the effective time of the spin-off: (a) selling all or substantially all of the assets that constitute our mat-supported 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements jackup rig business to any person (other than to us or to an entity which is and will be wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by us), (b) transferring any of our or any of our affiliates’ assets in certain transactions described in Section 368(a)(1) of the Code to another entity (other than to us or to an entity which is and will be wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by us), (c) transferring all or substantially all of the assets that constitute our mat-supported jackup rig business in a transaction described in Sections 351 or 721 of the Code (other than to a corporation or partnership which is and will be wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by us), (d) issuing stock of us or any affiliate (or any instrument that is convertible or exchangeable into any such stock) except in certain permitted cases relating to employee compensation, (e) facilitating or otherwise participating in any acquisition (or deemed acquisition) of our stock that would result in any shareholder or certain groups of shareholders owning or being deemed to own 40% or more (by vote or value) of our outstanding stock, and (f) redeeming or otherwise repurchasing any of our stock except in certain permitted cases and subject to certain limits. However, we will be permitted to take one or more of the foregoing actions if (a) we obtain from counsel an opinion which is reasonably satisfactory to Pride that such action will not adversely affect the tax consequences of the spin-off and certain related transactions or (b) we provide Pride with suitable financial security sufficient to cover any and all taxes that may arise from taking such action. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, in the event that the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, we would generally be responsible for 50% of the tax resulting from such failure. However, if the spin-off and/or certain related transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of certain actions or failures to act by us or by Pride, the party taking or failing to take such actions would be responsible for all of the tax resulting from such failure. Our indemnification obligations to Pride and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Pride or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances as a result of the spin-off. Under the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with Pride, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the spin-off and related transactions from being tax-free. Such actions would include, but not be limited to, any of the following actions within the two-year period following August 24, 2009, the effective time of the spin-off: (a) selling or transferring all or substantially all of the assets that constitute our mat-supported jackup rig business, (b) issuing stock of us or any affiliate (or any instrument that is convertible or exchangeable into any such stock) except in certain permitted cases relating to employee compensation, (c) facilitating or otherwise participating in any acquisition (or deemed acquisition) of our stock that would result in any shareholder or certain groups of shareholders owning or being deemed to own 40% or more (by vote or value) of our outstanding stock, and (d) redeeming or otherwise repurchasing any of our stock. The foregoing actions contain exceptions for certain permitted cases, including certain transfers among us and our wholly owned subsidiaries, and in some cases allow for actions that do not exceed permitted limits. These restrictions, to the extent they remain in effect and apply to particular transactions we may seek to undertake, may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new businesses or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results of acquisitions, are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, or fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire. The acquisition of assets or businesses that are complementary to our operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that attractive acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction, 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common stock. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other operations or assets, our financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be unable to implement an important component of our business strategy successfully. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to a number of operating hazards, including those specific to marine operations. We may not have insurance to cover all these hazards. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punchthroughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. Contract drilling requires the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. Our fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. In addition, our operations could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, and sea level changes that could be associated with climate change. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services, or personnel shortages. We customarily provide contract indemnity to our customers for: • claims that could be asserted by us relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs; • claims that could be asserted by our employees relating to personal injury or loss of life; and • pollution emanating from the rigs we operate. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico are subject to hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Our drilling rigs may be located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage or total loss by these storms. For example, in September 2008, the Pride Wyoming, one of our mat-supported jackup rigs operating in the U.S., was lost as a result of Hurricane Ike. In addition, damage to our rigs, our shore bases and our corporate infrastructure caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the damages can be repaired. We maintain insurance for injuries to our employees, damage to or loss of our equipment and other insurance coverage for normal business risks, including general liability insurance. Our rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico do not have coverage for physical damage due to named windstorms. Our marine package policy, which provides coverage for physical damage to our rigs and for various marine liabilities, has a $10 million per-occurrence deductible for non-windstorm events. Other deductibles may apply depending on the nature and circumstances of the liability. Any insurance protection may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. For example, in addition to our lack of coverage for physical damage caused by named 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements windstorms in the U.S., pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally may not be fully insurable. We do not maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance. In addition, some of our primary insurance policies have substantial deductibles. The oil and natural gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico suffered extensive damage in recent years due to hurricanes. As a result, insurance costs and deductibles have increased significantly. There also have been significant changes made to the scope and terms of various insurance coverages. There can be no assurance that costs, deductibles and coverage terms will not continue to be adversely affected. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured, or of a number of lesser events against which we are insured but are subject to substantial deductibles, aggregate limits, and/or self-insured amounts, could materially increase our costs and impair our profitability and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates or on terms that we consider reasonable or acceptable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Public health threats could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Public health threats, such as influenza, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and other highly communicable diseases, could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our clients and the global economy in general, including the worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas and the level of demand for our services. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our offices or rigs could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in the United States or Mexico, or any reduction in the demand for drilling services caused by public health threats in the future, may materially impact operations and adversely affect our financial results. We are responsible for costs and awards relating to the loss of the Pride Wyoming that are not covered by Pride’s insurance. In September 2008, the Pride Wyoming, a 250-foot slot-type jackup rig operating in the United States Gulf of Mexico, was deemed a total loss for insurance purposes after it was severely damaged and sank as a result of Hurricane Ike. We expect to incur total costs of approximately $71.9 million for removal of the wreckage and salvage operations, not including any costs arising from damage to offshore structures owned or operated by third parties. Under the master separation agreement we entered into with Pride at the time of our spin-off from Pride, Pride agreed to finance, at our option, all of the costs for removal of the wreckage and salvage operations until receipt of insurance proceeds, subject to a $10 million limitation of such debt to Pride under our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2009 we have incurred costs of $40.4 million for the removal of the wreckage and salvage operations, of which Pride financed $10 million as described above. We have received $27.3 million in insurance proceeds related to the removal of wreckage operation, and Pride has been reimbursed directly by the insurance carrier for the $10 million they funded. The remaining costs for removal of the wreckage and salvage operations are expected to be covered by Pride’s insurance, under which we are a named insured for this claim. We will be responsible for any costs not covered by Pride’s insurance. Three owners of facilities in the Gulf of Mexico and one company which claims a non-ownership proprietary interest in a facility in the Gulf of Mexico assert that parts of the Pride Wyoming impacted their facilities and caused damage. These claimants have requested that we pay for all costs, expenses and other losses associated with the damage, including loss of revenue. These owners have claimed damages in excess of $134 million in the aggregate. An unfavorable outcome related to these claims could result in an increase in our insurance costs going forward. Other pieces of the rig may have also caused damage to certain other offshore structures. In October 2008, we filed a complaint in United States Federal District Court pursuant to the Limitation of Liability Act, which has the potential to statutorily limit our exposure for claims arising out of third party damages caused by the loss of the Pride Wyoming. Pride has retained the right after the spin-off to control any claims, litigation or settlements arising out of the loss of the Pride Wyoming. We will be responsible for any deductibles or awards not covered by Pride’s insurance, under which we are a named insured. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In connection with our separation from Pride, Pride has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Pride’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. Pursuant to the master separation agreement, Pride has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Pride has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Pride will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Pride will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Pride any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The terms of our separation from Pride, the related agreements and other transactions with Pride were determined in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and thus may be less favorable to us than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party. Transactions and agreements entered into with Pride on or before the closing of the spin-off present conflicts between our interests and those of Pride. These transactions and agreements included the following: • agreements related to the separation of our business from Pride that provide for, among other things, the assumption by us of liabilities related to our business or subsidiaries; • the assumption by Pride of liabilities unrelated to our business; • our agreement not to compete with Pride in certain respects for three years following the spin-off; • the transfer to us of a target working capital amount; • our respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes and tax benefits and the terms of our various interim and ongoing relationships, and • administrative support services provided by Pride to us and other transactions with Pride. Because the terms of our separation from Pride and these transactions and agreements were entered into in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship, their terms may be less favorable to us than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party. We may not be able to maintain or replace our rigs as they age. The capital associated with the repair and maintenance of our fleet increases with age. We may not be able to maintain our fleet of existing rigs to compete effectively in the market, and our financial resources may not be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement rigs. The Seahawk 2000 and the Seahawk 2002, which are currently stacked, would require additional capital expenditures in order to be class certified and to operate. New technologies may cause our current drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to benefit from technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our customers generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. There can be no assurance, however, that these customers will necessarily be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. Also, we may choose not to enforce these indemnities because of the nature of our relationship with some of our larger customers. We are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are affected by governmental laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling industry, including those requiring us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals and to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Our operations and activities in the United States are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. Additionally, Mexico has adopted, and could in the future adopt additional, environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment that could be applicable to our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and regulations or materially increase our costs or both. We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues. We are also aware of legislation proposed by United States lawmakers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as greenhouse gas emissions regulations enacted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation or regulations in the areas where we operate to determine the impact of greenhouse emissions and climate change on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Any direct and indirect costs of meeting these requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our rigs could be restricted or made more costly by government regulation. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 caused damage to a number of rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. Rigs that were moved off location by the storms damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling rigs. In May 2006 and April 2007, the MMS issued interim guidelines for jackup rig fitness requirements for the 2006 and 2007 hurricane seasons, effectively imposing new requirements on the offshore oil and natural gas industry in an attempt to increase the likelihood of survival of jackup rigs and other offshore drilling units during a hurricane. Effective June 2009, the MMS issued longer-term guidelines, generally consistent with the interim guidelines, for jackup rig fitness requirements during hurricane seasons. The June 2009 guidelines are to be effective through the 2014 hurricane season. As a result of these MMS guidelines, our jackup rigs operating in the U.S. are being required to operate with a higher air gap (the space between the water level and the bottom of the rig’s hull) during the hurricane season, effectively reducing the water depth in which 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements they can operate. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies operating properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The MMS may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for our rigs, thus reducing their marketability. Implementation of the MMS guidelines or regulations may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our rigs. Unionization efforts and labor regulations could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Currently, our Mexican national employees are represented by a labor union and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements which are subject to periodic renegotiation. In addition, our business has been affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. Although our domestic employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize U.S. employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our U.S. employees could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages, whether foreign or domestic, could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. Certain legal obligations require us to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and restrict our ability to dismiss employees. Future regulations or court interpretations established in the countries in which we conduct our operations could increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from Pride. As a stand-alone, independent public company, we believe that we will more effectively focus on our operations and growth strategies, and thus bring more value to our stockholders, than we could as a subsidiary of Pride. However, by separating from Pride, there is a risk that we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been were we still a part of Pride. As part of Pride, we were able to enjoy certain benefits from Pride’s operating diversity, purchasing and borrowing leverage, and available capital for investments. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a stand-alone, independent company. We do not have a long history of operating as a stand-alone company, we may encounter difficulties in making the changes necessary to continue to operate as a stand-alone company, and we may incur greater costs as a stand-alone company that may adversely affect our results. Pride historically performed various corporate functions for us, including: • accounting; • human resource services such as payroll and benefit plan administration; • information technology and communications; • legal (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act); • purchasing and logistics; • quality, safety, health and environment; • risk management; • tax; and • treasury and corporate finance. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Following our separation from Pride, Pride has no obligation to provide these functions to us other than certain interim services that Pride was obligated to provide under a transition services agreement, which is described in Note 2 of our audited financial statements included in this annual report. We have developed or are developing, or engaging third parties to provide, our own systems and business functions to replace these systems and business functions Pride provided, and we may incur difficulties in the replacement process. We may also incur higher costs for these functions than the amounts we were allocated as segments of Pride. To the extent that these new systems do not function as planned, we may operate our business less efficiently and our results may suffer. Our executive team has not previously worked together and some members of our executive team do not have extensive experience operating our assets. While our executive officers have significant industry experience, some do not have extensive operating experience with the rigs in our fleet, and they have not all worked together previously as a team. As a separate company, we have substantially fewer resources than Pride. Our success will depend, in part, on the ability of our executives to work effectively as a team in the new environment. The loss of any of our executive officers could adversely impact our performance. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. We are implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have incurred additional annual expenses related to these steps and, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees, SEC reporting, transfer agent fees, hiring additional accounting and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses. In addition, we may not be able to implement these changes in a timely fashion. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 