Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report, any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect the company’s business, prospects, financial condition or operating results, which could cause the trading price of the company’s Class A common stock to decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on sustaining the strength of our brands, particularly our Enfa family of brands. The Enfa family of brands accounted for 61.0% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends upon our ability to offer attractive brand value propositions. This in turn depends in part on consumers attributing a higher value to our products than to alternatives. If the difference in the value attributed to our products as compared to those of our competitors narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy our products. If we fail to promote and maintain the brand equity of our products across each of our markets, then consumer perception of our products’ nutritional quality may be diminished and our business could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to maintain or improve our brand value propositions will impact whether these circumstances will result in decreased market share and profitability. We may experience liabilities or negative effects on our reputation as a result of real or perceived quality issues, including product recalls, injuries or other claims. Whether real or perceived, contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require us to recall products. From time to time we have experienced recalls of our products. While such recalls have not been material to our business on a global level in the past, we cannot assure you that such material product recalls will not occur in the future. We may also be subject to liability if our products or operations violate or are alleged to violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event our products cause, or are alleged to cause, injury, illness or death. Powder milk products are not sterile. A substantial portion of our products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. Depending on the specific type of product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw food materials, the processing and packaging of food products and upon use and handling by health care professionals, hospital personnel and consumers. In the event that certain of our products are found, or are alleged, to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not such products were under our control, our brand reputation and business could be materially adversely affected. Whether real or perceived, reports or allegations of inadequate product quality control with respect to other manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products also could adversely impact sales of our products. For example, although the U.S. FDA currently permits the use of bisphenol-A (“BPA”) in food packaging materials, including polycarbonate baby bottles and some of our infant formula packaging, recent public reports and allegations regarding the potential health hazards of BPA, and several lawsuits against baby bottle manufacturers and infant formula manufacturers (including us) related to BPA content, could contribute to a perceived safety risk about our products and adversely impact sales or otherwise disrupt our business. Further, the U.S. FDA or other regulatory authorities could prohibit the use of BPA in the future. In addition, in November 2008 and December 2008, the U.S. FDA released test results that identified extremely low trace levels of melamine and cyanuric acid in infant formula produced by U.S. manufacturers. The U.S. FDA has found no melamine in our products and only a trace amount of cyanuric acid, which the U.S. FDA believes does not raise public health concerns, was found in a sampling of our products. Chinese authorities found significant levels of melamine in Chinese dairy used in certain infant formula products of other manufacturers, which led to the deaths of several infants in September 2008. We do not use dairy 14 Table of Contents or protein-containing raw ingredients from China at any of our manufacturing sites and we have not been adversely impacted by these events in China thus far. Events such as these may create a perception of contamination risk among consumers with respect to all products in our industry. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under foreign laws and U.S. Federal and state laws, including the consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product liability or other legal claim or judgment against us or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our profitability. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited or fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products or processes could materially adversely affect our reputation and brand image and therefore our business. We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, and it can be costly to comply with these regulations. Changes in governmental regulations could harm our business. As a producer of pediatric nutrition products, our activities are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities and international organizations, including rules and regulations with respect to the environment, employee health and safety, hygiene, quality control and tax laws. It can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant product processes. Our activities may also be subject to all kinds of barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and increasingly dictating the specific content of our products and, with regard to the protection of consumer health and safety, limiting information and advertising about the health benefits of products that we market. In addition, regulatory changes or decisions that restrict the marketing, promotion and availability of our products, continued access to health care professionals, the ability to include genetically modified organisms in our products, as well as the manufacture and labeling of our products, could materially adversely affect our business. For example, regulations in the Philippines require governmental review of all advertisements for products intended for children under the age of two. In addition, certain activists, along with governmental and quasi-governmental entities, such as the United Nations Childrens’ Fund (“UNICEF”), have advocated against the marketing and sale of pediatric nutrition products. These efforts could result in increased regulatory restrictions on our activities in the future. Our activities could be materially adversely affected by any significant changes in such regulations or their enforcement. Our ability to anticipate and comply with evolving global standards requires significant investment in monitoring the global regulatory environment and we may be unable to comply with changes in regulation restricting our ability to continue to operate our business or manufacture, market or sell our products. Commodity price increases will increase our operating costs and may reduce our profitability. Commodity prices impact our business directly through the cost of raw materials used to make our products (such as skim milk powder, lactose and whey protein concentrate), the cost of inputs used to manufacture and ship our products (such as crude oil and energy) and the amount we pay to produce or purchase packaging for our products (such as cans, pouches, cardboard and plastic). Commodities such as these are susceptible to price volatility caused by conditions outside of our control, including fluctuations in commodities markets, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Our dairy costs have increased significantly over the past two years. If, as a result of consumer sensitivity to pricing or otherwise, we are unable to increase our prices to offset the increased cost of commodities, we may experience lower profitability and we may be unable to maintain historical levels of productivity. Our business is particularly vulnerable to commodity price increases in Asia, the fastest growing region in the pediatric nutrition industry. Commodity price increases in Asia could reduce our sales and limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy in that region. We employ various purchasing and pricing contract techniques in an effort to minimize commodity price volatility. Generally, these techniques include setting fixed terms with suppliers such as incorporating clauses setting forth unit pricing that is based on an average commodity price over a corresponding period of time. If we fail to manage our commodity price exposure adequately, our business may be materially adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. The pediatric nutrition industry is intensely competitive. Our primary competitors, including Nestlé S.A., Abbott Laboratories, Groupe Danone and Wyeth, all have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. We compete against large global companies, as well as regional and local companies, in each of the regions in which we operate. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with private label, store and economy brand products that are generally sold at lower prices. Competition in our product categories is based on the following factors: • brand recognition and loyalty; • product quality; • effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences; • product innovation; • price; and • distribution and availability of products. From time to time, in order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share, we may need to improve our brand recognition and product value proposition, and increase our spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation. The success of marketing, advertising and new product innovation is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. We may also need to reduce prices for some of our products in order to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain our market share. Competitive and customer pressures may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other cost increases. Our business will suffer if profit margins decrease, either as a result of a reduction in prices or an increase in costs with an inability to increase prices proportionally. Economic downturns, such as the current downturn, could cause consumers to shift their purchases from our higher-priced premium products to lower-priced products, including private label or store brands, which could materially adversely affect our business. The willingness of consumers to purchase premium brand pediatric nutrition products depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to shift their purchases from our higher-priced premium products to lower-priced products, including private label and store brand products. We believe private label and store brand product manufacturers gained market share in the United States over the past 12 months. Turmoil in the financial markets could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flow and financial flexibility, as well as the demand for our products. Recent turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity and credit markets in the United States and other regions of the world in which we do business. This could have an adverse impact on our customers, distributors, suppliers, counterparties to certain financial instruments, financial service providers and other service providers. We believe that, based on our expected operating cash flows and relationship with BMS, the current lack of liquidity in the credit markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or financial flexibility. Our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure that could materially negatively impact our operating results. We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Chinese renminbi, the Mexican peso, the Philippine peso, the Hong Kong dollar and the 16 Table of Contents Euro. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at the then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus these other currencies may negatively affect the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. While we intend to mitigate some of this risk with hedging and other activities, our business will nevertheless remain subject to substantial foreign exchange risk from foreign currency translation exposures that we will not be able to manage through effective hedging or the use of other financial instrument approaches. The international nature of our business subjects us to additional business risks that could cause our revenue and profitability to decline. We operate our business and market our products internationally in more than 50 countries. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and year ended December 31, 2007, 61.5% and 56.2%, respectively, of our net sales were generated in countries outside of the United States. The risks associated with our operations outside of the United States include: • multiple regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture, market or sell our products; • inflation, recession, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates and discriminatory fiscal policies; • adverse tax consequences from the repatriation of cash; • trade protection measures, including increased duties and taxes, and import or export licensing requirements; • price controls; • government health promotional programs intended to discourage the use of our products; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing operations; • differing labor regulations; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • political and economic instability; • enforcement of remedies in various jurisdictions; • changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; and • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries. These and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks of developing countries, and special risks associated with doing business in corrupt environments. We operate our business and market our products internationally in more than 50 countries, and we are focusing on increasing our sales and in some cases establishing new production facilities in regions, including Asia, Latin America, India and the Middle East, which are less developed, have less stability in legal systems and financial markets, and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments than the United States, and therefore present greater political, economic and operational risks. We have in place policies, procedures and certain ongoing training of employees with regard to business ethics and many key legal requirements, such as applicable anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 17 Table of Contents (“FCPA”), which make it illegal for us to give anything of value to foreign officials in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantages; however, there can be no assurance that our employees will adhere to our code of business ethics or any other of our policies, applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, or other legal requirements. If we fail to enforce our policies and procedures properly or maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. If we believe or have reason to believe that our employees have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, or other laws or regulations, we are required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, and if violations are found or suspected could face civil and criminal penalties, and significant costs for investigations, litigation, fees, settlements and judgments, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences, and our success depends upon our ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes. Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits and nutritional needs of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. If we do not succeed in offering products that consumers want to buy, our sales and market share will decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are unable to predict accurately which shifts in consumer preferences will be long lasting, or to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales will decline. In addition, given the variety of cultures and backgrounds of consumers in our global consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. As such, we must be successful in developing innovative products across our product categories. The consolidation of our retail customers may put pressures on our profitability. Our retail customers, such as mass merchandisers, club stores, grocery stores, drug stores and convenience stores, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the United States, Europe and other major markets. This consolidation has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power which are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. These customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their private label or store brand products. Meeting demands from these customers may adversely affect our margins and, if we fail to effectively respond to these demands, our sales could decline, each of which could materially adversely affect our profitability. We rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services in connection with the manufacturing and distribution of our products. Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide us with materials necessary for commercial production of our products, including certain key raw materials (such as dairy, agricultural oil and agricultural products) and primary packaging materials (such as cans). In particular, Martek Biosciences Corporation (Martek) provides us with most of the supply of DHA and ARA that we use in our products. We may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner, or at all, if any of our third-party suppliers, including Martek, should cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply us or if the supply agreements are suspended, terminated or otherwise expire without renewal. If these suppliers are not able to supply us with the quantities of materials we need or if these suppliers are not able to provide services in the required time period, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also utilize third parties in several countries throughout the world to distribute our products. If any of our third-party distributors fail to distribute our products in a timely manner, or at all, or if our distribution agreements are suspended, terminated or otherwise expire without renewal, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if we or one of our suppliers should encounter problems manufacturing products, our business could suffer. The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, in part due to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during the manufacturing process for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, maintenance of our manufacturing environment, natural disasters, various contagious diseases and process safety issues. If problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. This could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expenses being spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. If problems are not discovered before the affected product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs as well as reputational damage may also be incurred. To the extent that we or one of our suppliers experience significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may experience difficulties and delays inherent in the manufacturing and selling of our products. We may experience difficulties and delays inherent in the manufacturing and selling of our products, such as: (1) seizure or recalls of products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (2) the failure to obtain, the imposition of limitations on the use of, or loss of, patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights; (3) our failure, or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers, to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (4) construction delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products; (5) other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capability due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply; (6) availability of raw materials; and (7) restrictions associated with the transportation of goods in and out of foreign countries. If we fail to increase our production and manufacturing capacity, we will be unable to continue to grow and our ability to produce new products, expand within our existing markets and enter into new markets will be limited. Global growth and demand for our products has increased the utilization of our production and manufacturing facilities, including manufacturing capacity provided by third-party manufacturers and packaging capacity with respect to our products. If we are unable to successfully expand our production and manufacturing capacity, we will be unable to continue our growth and expand within our existing markets or enter into additional geographic markets or new product categories. In addition, failure to successfully expand our production and manufacturing capacity will limit our ability to introduce and distribute new products, including our existing pipeline of innovations and product improvements, or otherwise take advantage of opportunities in new and existing markets. Further, increasing our production and manufacturing facilities requires significant investment and build times. Delays in increasing capacity could also limit our ability to continue our growth and materially adversely affect our business. Disruption of our global supply chain could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, strikes, various contagious diseases or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could materially adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents Changes in WIC, or our participation in it, could materially adversely affect our business. Participation in the WIC program is an important part of our U.S. business based on the volume of infant formula sold under the program. As of December 31, 2008, we hold the contracts that supply approximately 41% of WIC births. As a result, our business strategy includes bidding for new WIC contracts and maintaining current WIC relationships. Our failure to win bids for new contracts pursuant to the WIC program or our inability to maintain current WIC relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any changes to how the WIC program is administered and any changes to the eligibility requirements and/or overall participation in the WIC program could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business could be harmed by a failure of our information technology, administrative or outsourcing systems. We rely on our information technology, administrative and outsourcing systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology, administrative or outsourcing systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business to suffer. In addition, our information technology, administrative and outsourcing systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees, receiving payments from our customers or performing other information technology, administrative or outsourcing services on a timely basis. We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have no prior operating experience or as we expand our operations into new product categories. We intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to enter into new markets. This may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate. It may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. We also intend to expand our product portfolio by adding new product categories. As we expand our business into new countries or product categories we may encounter regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties that increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up our operations or become profitable in such countries or product categories. This may affect our relationships with customers, suppliers and regulators and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. Our ability to develop new pediatric nutrition products depends on, among other factors, our ability to understand the composition and variation of breast milk. Analyzing breast milk requires significant investment in research and development and testing of new ingredients and new production processes. We devote significant resources to investment in research and development in order gain a deep understanding of the composite ingredients of breast milk. The research and development process is expensive, prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. Development of a new product, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, typically takes between five and seven years. Each of these periods varies considerably from product to product and country to country. Because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with research and development, products that we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market such products successfully. The development of new products may take longer and cost more to develop and may be less successful than we currently anticipate as a result of: • products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal time frame, or fail to ever reach market, for any number of reasons, including efficacy and the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture; 20 Table of Contents • failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances where appropriate for the discovery and commercialization of products, or otherwise to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage pipeline products; or • failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability. We cannot assure you that any of our products currently in our development pipeline will be commercially successful. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations and to address violations of or liabilities under these requirements. Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Among other things, these requirements regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, the use, management, treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, the control of combustible dust, the reduction of noise emissions and fire and explosion risks, the cleanup of contamination and the prevention of workplace exposures and injuries. Pollution controls and various permits and programs are required for many of our operations. We could incur or be subject to, among other things, substantial costs (including civil or criminal fines or penalties or clean-up costs), third party damage claims, requirements to install additional pollution control or safety control equipment and/or permit revocations in the event of violations by us of environmental, health, and safely requirements applicable to our facilities and operations or our failure to obtain, develop or comply with required environmental permits or programs. In addition, most of our facilities have a history of industrial operations, and contaminants have been detected at some of our facilities. We also have been named as a potentially responsible party with respect to three Superfund or state sites. We can be held responsible, in some cases without regard to knowledge, fault, or ownership at the time of the release, for the costs of investigating or remediating contamination of any real property we or our predecessors ever owned, operated, or used as a waste disposal site. In addition, we can be required to compensate public authorities or private owners for damages to natural resources or other real property, or to restore those properties, in the event of off-site migration of contamination. Changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, regulations or enforcement policies, could also cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve or maintain compliance. The assertion of claims relating to on- or off-site contamination, the discovery of previously unknown environmental liabilities or the imposition of unanticipated investigation or cleanup obligations, could result in potentially significant expenditures to address contamination or resolve claims or liabilities. Such costs and expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Given the importance of brand recognition to our business, we have invested considerable effort in seeking trademark protection for our core brands, including the Enfa family of brands. However, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will be sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights in our brands adequately or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate any such rights. Our trademark registrations and applications can potentially be challenged and cancelled or narrowed. Moreover, some of the countries in which we operate offer less protection for, and may subject these rights to higher risks, than is the case in Europe or North America. In addition, it is costly to litigate in order to protect any of our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating these rights in our core products or brands, including our Enfa family of brands, our future financial condition and our ability to develop our business could be materially adversely affected. Other companies have from time to time taken, and may in the future take, actions that we believe violate our intellectual property rights and we may decide to enforce (and in some cases are currently enforcing) those rights against such actions. Uncertainties inherent in such litigation make the outcome and associated costs difficult to predict. If unsuccessful, the legal actions could result in the invalidation of some of our intellectual property rights, which could materially adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of security measures, confidentiality policies, contractual arrangements and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary formulae and other valuable trade secrets. We also rely on patent, copyright and trademark laws to further protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot, however, be certain that the steps we take will prevent the development and marketing of similar, competing products and services by third parties. Our existing patents and any future patents that we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar products or to provide us with a competitive advantage. Moreover, our patents can potentially be challenged and narrowed or invalidated. Trade secrets are difficult to protect, and despite our efforts may become known to competitors or independently discovered. The confidentiality agreements we rely on with our employees, customers, contractors and others may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. Failure to adequately protect our valuable intellectual property from being infringed or misappropriated could materially adversely affect our business. We may be required to defend ourselves against intellectual property claims from third parties, which could harm our business. Regardless of merit, there are third-party patents that may cover our products. Third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If a third party asserts that our products or services are infringing upon its intellectual property, these claims could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages and/or prevent us from selling our products. Even if we were to prevail against such claims, any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Furthermore, as a result of an intellectual property challenge, we may find it necessary to enter into royalty licenses or other costly agreements, and we may not be able to obtain such agreements at all or on terms acceptable to us. Increases in costs of pension benefits and current and post-retirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. With approximately 5,300 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of retirement benefits and current and post-retirement medical and other employee health and welfare benefits. These costs can vary substantially as a result of changes in health care costs, volatility in investment returns on plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate related liabilities. These factors may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pensions and medical benefits. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and upward pressure would reduce our profitability. Labor disputes may cause work stoppages, strikes and disruptions. The workforce at our manufacturing facility in Delicias, Mexico is unionized and covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which becomes subject to salary and benefits review on March 31, 2009, and to total contract review on March 31, 2010. The manufacturing workforce and non-supervised sales force in Makati, Philippines are unionized and covered by a collective bargaining agreement, which expires on December 31, 2010. In addition, several of our workforces in Europe have works council representation. As a result, any labor disputes, including work stoppages, strikes and disruptions, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Our business strategy and future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, hire and retain highly-skilled managerial, professional service, sales, development, marketing, finance, accounting, administrative, information technology, science, research and infrastructure-related personnel in a competitive environment, who are critical to our business functions. The market for highly-skilled employees is competitive in the labor markets in which we operate. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to retain key employees or recruit 22 Table of Contents qualified personnel in a timely fashion, or if we are required to incur unexpected increases in compensation costs to retain key employees or meet our hiring goals. If we are not able to retain and attract the personnel that we require, or we are not able to do so on a cost-effective basis, it could be more difficult for us to sell and develop our products and services and execute our business strategy. We derive a significant percentage of our revenues from one customer. The loss of this customer could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our products are sold principally to the wholesale and retail trade, both nationally and internationally, and revenues from one customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including sales to Sam’s Club, Wal-Mart), accounted for approximately 13.0% of our gross sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. If this customer ceases doing business with us or if we encounter any difficulties in our relationship with Wal-Mart, our business could be materially adversely affected. An adverse change in favorable demographic and economic trends as well as a change in scientific opinion regarding our products in any of our largest markets could materially adversely affect our business and reduce our profitability. Our growth plan relies on favorable demographic and economic trends in various markets, including: (1) rising incomes in emerging markets, (2) increasing number of working mothers and (3) increasing consumer spending on health care worldwide. If these demographic trends change in an adverse way, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, an adverse change in scientific opinion regarding our products, such as the health benefits of DHA and ARA, could materially adversely affect our business. We have substantial debt, which could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations. We had total indebtedness of $2,000 million as of December 31, 2008. See “Item 8. Financial Statements—Note 3, Related Parties” and “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” This amount of debt could have important consequences to us and our investors, including: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on this debt; • requiring us to repay the full amount of our debt upon a change of control event; • making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may not be as leveraged with debt as we are; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise; and • pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt. 23 Table of Contents We intend to evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives, any of which could distract our management or otherwise have a negative effect on our revenues, costs and stock price. Our future success may depend on opportunities to buy or obtain rights to other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. In particular, we intend to evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, strategic initiatives, alliances, vertical integration opportunities and divestitures. If we attempt to engage in these transactions, we expose ourselves to various inherent risks, including: • accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired or combined business; • our ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; • difficulties successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly-acquired operations or employees; • difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business; • the possibility we could incur impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; and • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or implement the strategic initiative. If any of the foregoing risks materializes, our results of operations and the results of the proposed transactions would likely differ from our, and market expectations, and our stock price could, accordingly, decline. In addition, we may not be able to complete desirable transactions, for reasons including a failure to secure financing, as a result of our separation agreement or other agreements with third parties. See “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence” for a description of the restrictions arising under the separation agreement. We depend on cash flows generated by our subsidiaries, and a failure to receive distributions from our subsidiaries may result in our inability to meet our financial obligations, or to pay dividends. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends to our stockholders depends upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries to us in the form of dividends, tax sharing payments or otherwise. There are a number of other factors that could affect our ability to pay dividends, including the following: • lack of availability of cash to pay dividends due to changes in our operating cash flow, capital expenditure requirements, working capital requirements and other cash needs; • unexpected or increased operating or other expenses or changes in the timing thereof; • restrictions under Delaware law or other applicable law on the amount of dividends that we may pay; • a decision by our board of directors to modify or revoke its policy to pay dividends; and • the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and its ability to make any payments will depend on its earnings, the terms of its indebtedness, tax considerations and legal restrictions. While no restrictions currently 24 Table of Contents exist, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us in the future. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations. Risks Related to Our Relationship with BMS We may not realize the potential benefits from our separation from BMS. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipate from our separation from BMS. These benefits include the following: • allowing our management to focus its efforts on our business and strategic priorities; • enabling us to allocate our capital more efficiently; • providing us with direct access to the debt and equity capital markets; • improving our ability to pursue acquisitions through the use of shares of our common stock as consideration; • enhancing our market recognition with investors; and • increasing our ability to attract and retain employees by providing equity compensation tied to our business. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our separation for a variety of reasons. For example, the process of separating our business from BMS and operating as an independent public company may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. In addition, although we will have direct access to the debt and equity capital markets following the separation, we may not be able to issue debt or equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. The availability of shares of our common stock for use as consideration for acquisitions also will not ensure that we will be able to successfully pursue acquisitions or that the acquisitions will be successful. Moreover, even with equity compensation tied to our business we may not be able to attract and retain employees as desired. We also may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from our separation if any of the matters identified as risks in this “Risk Factors” section were to occur. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits from our separation for any reason, our business may be materially adversely affected. BMS controls the direction of our business, and the concentrated ownership of our common stock and certain governance arrangements will prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant decisions. BMS owns 55.1% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, and 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock, giving BMS 83.1% of the shares of our outstanding common stock and 97.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. As long as BMS owns a majority of our voting power, BMS will be able to control any corporate action that requires a stockholder vote irrespective of the vote of, and without prior notice to, any other stockholder. As a result, BMS will have the ability to control significant corporate activities, including: • the election of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; • acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets, mergers or other business combinations; • our capital structure; • payment of dividends; and • the number of shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans for our prospective and existing employees. 25 Table of Contents In addition, we do not have a formal mechanism by which our independent directors must approve any future transactions with BMS. This voting control and influence may discourage transactions involving a change of control of our company, including transactions in which a holder of our Class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for such shares. Furthermore, after the expiration of the 180-day lock-up period, BMS generally has the right at any time to spin-off or split-off our common stock that it owns or to sell a controlling interest in us to a third party, in either case without stockholder approval and without providing for a purchase of the other outstanding shares. Even if the ownership interest of BMS is reduced to less than a majority of our outstanding shares of our common stock, so long as BMS retains a significant portion of our voting power, BMS will have the ability to substantially influence these significant corporate activities. The transitional services that BMS provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may have difficulty finding replacement services or be required to pay increased costs to replace these services after our transitional services agreement with BMS expires. Historically BMS has provided us with significant corporate and shared services related to corporate functions such as executive oversight, risk management, information technology, accounting, audit, legal, investor relations, human resources, tax, treasury, procurement, pensions and post retirement, stock based compensation and other services. Following our separation from BMS, BMS continues to provide many of these services on a transitional basis for a fee. The terms of these services and amounts to be paid by us to BMS are provided in the transitional services agreement described in “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” While these services are being provided to us by BMS, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts we pay for them will be limited. After the expiration of the transitional services agreement, we may not be able to replace these services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we will receive from BMS under the transitional services agreement. Although we intend to replace portions of the services currently provided by BMS, we may encounter difficulties replacing certain services or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently have in effect. In addition, we have historically received informal support from BMS, which may not be addressed in the transitional services agreement that we have entered into with BMS. We expect that the level of this informal support will diminish following the separation as we become a stand-alone company. In Argentina, Brazil, China and Mexico, due to regulatory and other concerns, not all of the assets or shares related to our business in those jurisdictions were transferred to us prior to or concurrently with our initial public offering. We intend to make these transfers, but we cannot offer any assurance that such transfers will ultimately occur or not be delayed for an extended period of time. See Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” As a stand-alone public company, we no longer have access to the resources of BMS, and we may experience increased costs resulting from decreased purchasing power. We have benefited from BMS’s financial strength and numerous significant business relationships and have been able to take advantage of BMS’s size and purchasing power in procuring goods, services and technology. We have drawn on these resources in developing our own contacts and relationships. Following our separation from BMS, we are no longer able to rely on BMS’s resources and contacts. As a stand-alone public company, we may be unable to obtain goods, services and technology at prices and on terms as favorable as those that we obtained prior to our separation from BMS and, as a result, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to favorably resolve disputes that arise between BMS and us with respect to our past and ongoing relationships. Disputes may arise between BMS and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from BMS; • employee retention and recruiting; • business combinations involving us; • sales or dispositions by BMS of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; and • the nature, quality and pricing of services BMS has agreed to provide us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The agreements that we will enter into with BMS may be amended upon agreement between the parties. While we are controlled by BMS, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to these agreements, if required, on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party. Some of our directors are executive officers of BMS. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers own common stock of BMS, and options or other instruments, the value of which is related to the value of stock of BMS, which could cause conflicts of interests that result in our not acting on opportunities on which we would otherwise act. Six of our directors have been designated to our board of directors by BMS and are current executive officers of BMS. These directors and a number of our officers own a substantial amount of BMS common stock, and options or other instruments, the value of which is related to the value of common stock of BMS. The direct and indirect interests of our directors and officers in common stock of BMS and the presence of executive officers of BMS on our board of directors could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both us and BMS that could have different implications for BMS than they do for us. As a result, we may be precluded from pursuing certain opportunities on which we would otherwise act, including growth opportunities. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules, and, as a result, will rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. Because BMS owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares, we are a “controlled company” under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, certain exemptions under the NYSE standards free us from the obligation to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that a majority of our board of directors consists of “independent directors”, as defined under the rules of the NYSE; • that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and compensation committee. 27 Table of Contents Accordingly, for so long as we are a “controlled company”, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock may depress the price of our Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, including shares which might be offered for sale by BMS. The perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our costs will increase significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. We have historically operated our business as a division of a public company. As a stand-alone public company, we will incur additional legal, accounting, compliance and other expenses that we have not incurred historically. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm that addresses the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. We also expect these regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations because there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, then investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may result in an entrenchment of management and diminish the value of our Class A common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable. 28 Table of Contents These provisions include: • a dual-class common stock structure that gives BMS and its affiliates control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets; • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred shares without stockholder approval; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of our Class A common stockholders to benefit from a change of control and, as a result, could materially adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock and our stockholders’ ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 