Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common units. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common units could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our BusinessOur businesses are and may be subject to federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations that expose them to potential financial liability. Complying with applicable environmental laws requires significant resources, and if our businesses fail to comply, they could be subject to substantial liability.Some of the facilities and operations of our businesses are, and may be, subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations pertaining to the handling, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes, and hazardous materials and wastes, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. Any material violations of these laws can lead to substantial liability, revocations of discharge permits, fines or penalties, which could negatively impact our financial condition, business and results of operations. Our businesses rely, and may rely, on their intellectual property and licenses to use others' intellectual property, for competitive advantage. If our businesses are unable to protect their intellectual property, are unable to obtain or retain licenses to use others' intellectual property, or if they infringe upon or are alleged to have infringed upon others' intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on their financial condition, business and results of operations.The success of each of our businesses depends in part on its, or licenses to use others', brand names, proprietary technology and manufacturing techniques. These businesses rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect their intellectual property rights. The steps they have taken to protect their intellectual property rights may not prevent third parties from using their intellectual property without their authorization or independently developing intellectual property that is similar. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our businesses' intellectual property rights effectively. Stopping unauthorized use of proprietary information and intellectual property, and defending claims of unauthorized use of others' proprietary information or intellectual property, may be difficult, time-consuming and costly and could subject our businesses to significant liability for damages and invalidate their property rights. Such unauthorized use could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage our businesses have developed, cause them to lose sales or otherwise harm their business. We conduct operations or own interests in companies with operations outside of the U.S., which may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with companies that operate solely in the U.S.We have operations or own interests in securities of companies with operations located outside the U.S. These holdings have additional risks, including risks relating to currency exchange, less developed or efficient financial markets than in the U.S., absence of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, differences in the legal and regulatory environment, different publicly available information in respect of companies in non-U.S. markets, economic and political risks, and possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not adversely affect our assets that are held in certain countries or the returns from these assets.We are dependent on digital technologies to conduct our daily operations and maintain confidential information. Failure of these technologies could adversely affect our business.The Company relies on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to both manage its daily operations and to secure its intellectual property. We use various protective measures to secure our systems from unauthorized access. However, a failure in or breach of operational or informational security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, as a result of information system failures or cyber-attack, could disrupt business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, including customer and vendor lists, 9damage our reputation and investor confidence, increase security and remediation costs and cause losses, including potential lawsuits, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. HNH sponsors defined benefit pension plans which could subject it to substantial cash funding requirements in the future.HNH's ongoing operating cash flow requirements include arranging for the funding of the minimum requirements of the WHX Corporation Pension Plan, and the Retirement Plan for Employees of JPS Industries, Inc. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates, as well as health care trends and associated mortality rates, impact our defined benefit pension plan expense and funding obligations. Significant changes in these factors, including adverse changes in discount rates, investment losses on plan assets and increases in participant life expectancy, may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial statements. Required future contributions are determined based upon assumptions regarding such matters as discount rates on future obligations, assumed rates of return on plan assets and legislative changes. Actual future pension costs and required funding obligations will be affected by changes in the factors and assumptions described in the previous sentence, as well as other changes such as any plan termination or other acceleration events. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this Form 10-K for additional information.WebBank’s Lending Programs Are Subject to Extensive Federal and State Regulation.The consumer and business lending programs offered by WebBank are subject to extensive legal requirements at the federal and state levels. Among the laws that may be applicable to some or all of the programs offered by WebBank are:•the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder, which require certain disclosures to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans;•the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, and state laws that prohibit unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices;•the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder, which prohibit discrimination in the extension of credit on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act;•Federal and state laws relating to privacy and the safeguarding of personally identifiable consumer information and data breach notification; and•laws governing the permissibility of the interest rates and fees that are charged to borrowers.If WebBank or its programs do not comply with these laws, it may be subject to claims for damages, fines, or penalties, and may face regulatory scrutiny. In addition, some violations could result in an underlying loan being found invalid or unenforceable, or subject to payment defenses. Any of these violations could result in the imposition of liability on WebBank, although WebBank may have indemnification rights for certain claims. In addition, there could be limitations on WebBank’s ongoing or future business.WebBank offers lending programs through relationships with Marketing Partners. WebBank and its Marketing Partners are subject to supervision by the FDIC and the UDFI. The authority of the FDIC and the UDFI includes the ability to examine WebBank, the Marketing Partners, and the programs. The FDIC and UDFI also may bring enforcement actions against WebBank and its Marketing Partners if they detect any violations of law. These enforcement actions could result in monetary liability on WebBank, increased compliance obligations, or limitations on its ongoing and future business.WebBank’s Status as Lender of the Loans it Offers, and the Ability of Assignees to Collect Interest, May be ChallengedWebBank’s business includes lending programs with Marketing Partners, where the Marketing Partners provide origination servicing for the loans and subsequently purchases the loans (or interests in the loans) that are originated by WebBank. There has been litigation which has challenged lending arrangements where a bank has made a loan and then sells and assigns it to an entity that is engaged in assisting with the origination and servicing of the loan. In such challenges the issuing banks (such as WebBank) are not usually defendants. However, such cases if successfully brought against WebBank’s Marketing Partners or others could negatively impact WebBank’s ongoing and future business. WebBank has structured its Marketing Partners' programs, and exercises control over these programs, to address these risks. A challenge of this type was brought 10against one of WebBank’s Marketing Partners previously. WebBank intervened in the case and, in 2014, the case was dismissed in favor of WebBank.On May 22, 2015, in a case involving whether a debt buyer that purchased defaulted loans from a national bank could collect interest on those loans at the rate that the National Bank Act permitted the seller of the loans to charge, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that federal law did not preempt the application of state usury laws to the debt buyer. Madden v. Midland Funding LLC, 786 F.3d 246 (2d Cir. 2015). The Second Circuit remanded the case to the federal district court to determine whether the debt buyer violated state usury laws, including whether the interest rate collected by the debt buyer was permissible under state law because of a choice-of-law clause in the loan agreement. WebBank believes that the Madden case is inconsistent with established legal precedent, and also that WebBank’s operation of its business distinguishes its programs from the facts of the Madden case. In addition, there are additional state law arguments to support as assignee’s ability to collect interest on a loan, but these were not addressed by the Second Circuit in its decision. The defendant in the Madden case filed a petition for a writ of certiorari on November 10, 2015 seeking further review of the Second Circuit’s decision by the United States Supreme Court. It is uncertain, however, whether the Supreme Court will agree to hear the appeal and, if it does, how it will rule. If the Madden decision stands, then other courts may rule that federal usury law applicable to WebBank does not preempt state usury laws that otherwise may apply to interest collected by Marketing Partners or other assignees of loans originated by Bank by WebBank. This could negatively impact WebBank’s ongoing and future business.WebBank operates in a highly regulated environment. Recent and ongoing legislative and regulatory actions may significantly affect our liquidity or financial condition. On July 21, 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended primarily to overhaul the financial regulatory framework following the global financial crisis and impacts all financial institutions, including WebBank. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and Financial Stability Oversight Council, consolidated certain federal bank regulators and imposed increased corporate governance and executive compensation requirements. While many of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institutions significantly larger than ours, the amount and complexity of regulations has increased our regulatory compliance burden and therefore has increased the Bank’s regulatory risk.In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act, the so-called “Volcker Rule,” which generally restricts certain banking entities (including affiliates of depository institutions) from engaging in proprietary trading activities and acquiring or retaining ownership interests in, or sponsoring, any private equity or hedge fund (collectively, "covered funds"). The implementing regulations for the Volcker Rule were finalized by various regulatory agencies on December 10, 2013. Thereafter, the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period until July 21, 2015. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve further extended the conformance period until July 21, 2016 with respect to investments in, and relationships with, covered funds and foreign funds (collectively, “legacy funds”) subject to the Volcker Rule that were in place prior to December 31, 2013. The Federal Reserve also indicated that it intends to further extend the conformance period for investments in, and relationships with, legacy funds until July 21, 2017. The end of the conformance period for proprietary trading activities and for investments in, and relationships with, non-legacy funds was July 21, 2015. Under the regulations, following the end of the applicable conformance period, we (and our affiliates) are restricted from engaging in proprietary trading, or investing in or sponsoring covered funds unless our activities qualify for a specific exemption under the rule or satisfy certain requirements under the rule. While we are a banking entity under the Volcker Rule, we do not expect the Volcker Rule to have a material impact on our business. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act codified a longstanding policy that all companies that directly or indirectly control an FDIC-insured bank are required to serve as a source of financial strength for such institution. As a result, SPLP could be called upon by the FDIC to infuse additional capital into WebBank to the extent that WebBank fails to satisfy its capital requirements, including at times that SPLP might not otherwise be inclined to provide it and even if doing so may adversely affect SPLP’s ability to meet its other obligations. Currently, WebBank meets or exceeds all such capital requirements.The U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. We cannot predict whether additional legislation or regulations will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.WebBank is subject to capital requirements.In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC issued rules that implemented the Basel III changes to the international regulatory capital framework and revised the U.S. risk-based and leverage 11capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations in order to strengthen identified areas of weakness in capital rules and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Effective January 1, 2015 for WebBank, FDIC regulations implementing the Basel III Accord modified WebBank’s minimum capital requirements by adding a 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 ratio and increased the Tier 1 capital ratio requirement from 4% to 6%. FDIC regulations also require WebBank to comply with a total capital ratio of 8% and a leverage ratio of 4%. Additionally, a Capital Conservation Buffer (composed solely of common equity Tier 1 capital) equal to 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements will be phased in starting January 1, 2016 until fully implemented on January 1, 2019. The Capital Conservation Buffer is on top of the minimum risk-weighted asset ratios and will have the effect of increasing those ratios by 2.5% each when fully phased in. A failure of WebBank to maintain the aggregate minimum capital required by the Capital Conservation Buffer will impair its ability to make certain distributions (including dividends and stock repurchases) and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. A failure of WebBank to maintain capital as required by the FDIC’s minimum capital requirements would subject WebBank to the FDIC’s prompt corrective action regime, which may further impair WebBank’s ability to make payments or distributions and may require a capital restoration plan or other corrective regulatory measures. Although the Company currently cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that Basel III and its implementation in the U.S. will have on WebBank and the banking industry more generally, WebBank is currently in compliance with the new regulations. Our energy segment is highly dependent on the activity level of the North American oil and gas industry. Our markets may be adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control.The level of oil and natural gas exploration and production activity in the United States is volatile, and has recently collapsed in light of the severe decline the price of oil. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, or a decrease in the development rate of reserves in our market areas, weakness in oil and natural gas prices, or our customers' perceptions that oil and natural gas prices will decrease in the future, could result in a reduction in the utilization of our equipment and result in lower revenues or rates for the services of our Energy segment. Our customers' willingness to undertake these activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by many factors over which we have no control.Risks Related to Our StructureThe unitholders have limited recourse to maintain actions against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager.The Limited Partnership Agreement of SPLP, or the “Partnership Agreement,” contains broad indemnification and exculpation provisions that limit the right of a unitholder to maintain an action against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager, or to recover losses or costs incurred due to action or inaction by these parties which have a negative effect on the Company.Our Partnership Agreement contains certain provisions that may limit the voting rights of some unitholders.Our Partnership Agreement contains specific provisions that are intended to comply with regulatory limitations on the ownership of our securities as a result of our ownership of WebBank. Under the Partnership Agreement, a person or group that acquires beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the common units without the prior approval of the Board of Directors may lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units in excess of 9.9%.We may have conflicts of interest with the minority shareholders of our businesses and decisions may need to be made by disinterested directors, without the participation of directors or officers associated with the Manager and the Company. These decisions may be different from the decisions we would make, and may or may not be in the best interests of our unitholders.Because we own less than 100% of certain affiliates, and we may engage in transactions with these affiliates from time to time, the boards of directors and officers of those businesses, including directors and officers associated with our Manager and the Company, have fiduciary duties to their respective shareholders. As a result, they may make decisions that are in the best interests of their shareholders generally but which are not necessarily in the best interest of our unitholders. In dealings with us, the directors and officers of our businesses may have conflicts of interest and decisions may have to be made without their 12participation. Such decisions may be different from the decisions we would make and may not be in the best interests of our common unitholders, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.There are certain interlocking relationships among us and certain affiliates of Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman, which may present potential conflicts of interest.Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman and a substantial unitholder, is the Chief Executive Officer of our Manager. As of December 31, 2015, Mr. Lichtenstein directly owned approximately 12.7% of our outstanding common units. In addition, affiliates of our Manager beneficially own approximately 25.6% of our outstanding units, although Mr. Lichtenstein disclaims beneficial ownership of any common units not directly held by him. We have entered into transactions and/or agreements with these entities. There can be no assurance that such entities will not have interests in conflict with our own. Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest, possibly diverting their attention from the Company’s operations.Certain individual members of our management team may, from time to time, be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by our Manager and its affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved.Being classified as an “investment company” would subject us to numerous restrictions and requirements that would be inconsistent with the manner in which we operate our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.We plan to continue to conduct our business and operations in such a manner as not to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”).Investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. An entity may generally be deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act if (a) it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (b) absent an applicable exemption, it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets (the “40% Test”). As a result of the Exchange Transaction, on July 14, 2009, we could no longer definitively conclude that we passed the 40% Test or were able to rely on any exception from the definition of an investment company.The Company has taken actions, including liquidating certain of our assets and acquiring additional interests in existing or new subsidiaries or controlled companies, to comply with the 40% Test, or a relevant exception. Also, since the Company operates as a diversified holding company engaged in a variety of operating businesses, we do not believe we are primarily engaged in an investment company type business, nor do we propose to primarily engage in such a business. Our intent to operate as a diversified holding company, and comply with the 40% test, may limit our ability to make certain investments, compel us to divest certain holdings, or to take or forego certain actions that could otherwise be beneficial to us.If we were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may need to further adjust our business strategy and assets, including divesting certain desirable assets immediately to fall outside of the definition or within an exemption, to register as an investment company (and subject to the aforementioned restrictions and requirements) or to cease operations.Risks Related to Our ManagerWe depend on Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager, and Jack Howard, the President of the Manager, in running our businesses. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results and financial condition.Our success depends on the efforts, skills, reputation and business contacts of Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager and Jack Howard, the President of the Manager. While the key members of the Manager have worked for the Manager and its affiliates for many years, our Manager does not have any employment agreements with any of the key members of its management team and their continued service is not guaranteed. The loss of the services of 13Mr. Lichtenstein or Mr. Howard could have a material adverse effect on our asset value, revenues, net income and cash flows and could harm our ability to maintain or grow our existing operations or pursue additional opportunities in the future.We cannot determine the amount of the Management Fee that will be paid over time with any certainty.The Management Fee is calculated by reference to our total partners' capital. Our total partners' capital will be impacted by the performance of our businesses and other businesses we may acquire in the future, as well as the issuance of additional common units. Changes in our total partners' capital and in the resulting Management Fee could be significant, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if our performance declines, assuming our total partners' capital remains the same, the Management Fee will increase as a percentage of our net income.Our Manager's liability is limited under the Management Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.Under the Management Agreement, our Manager, its members, officers, employees, affiliates, agents and legal representatives are not liable for, and we have agreed to indemnify such persons from, any loss or expense, including without limitations, any judgment, settlement, reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs and expenses incurred in connection with the defense of any actual or threatened proceeding, other than losses resulting from willful misconduct or gross negligence in the performance of such indemnified person's obligations and duties. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.Risks Related to our Common UnitsWe may issue additional common units, or other series of units, in the future without the consent of unitholders and at a discount to the market price of such units. In particular, sales of significant amounts of the common units may cause the price of the common units to decline.Under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, additional common units, or additional series of units, may be issued without the consent of unitholders at a discount to the market price. In addition, other classes of securities may be issued with rights that are senior to or which otherwise have preferential rights to the rights of the common units. Sales of significant amounts of the common units in the public market or the perception that such sales of significant amounts may occur could adversely affect its market price. Moreover, the perceived risk of any potential dilution could cause common unit holders to attempt to sell their common units and investors to “short” the common units, a practice in which an investor sells common units that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase common units later at a lower price to cover the sale. Any event that would cause the number of common units being offered for sale to increase would likely cause the common units' market price to further decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional common units in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.Risks Related to TaxationAll statutory references in this section are to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code.”Our unitholders may be subject to U.S. federal, state and other income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether they receive any cash distributions from us.The Company operates, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. Our unitholders will be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income tax on their allocable share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. We do not anticipate making any cash distributions or paying any cash dividends. Accordingly, our unitholders may be required to make tax payments in connection with their ownership of common units that significantly exceed their cash distributions in any given year.Our tax treatment is not assured. If we are taxed as a corporation, it could adversely impact our results of operations.A partnership is not a taxable entity, and distributions by a partnership to a partner are generally not taxable to the partnership or the partner unless the amount of cash distributed to such partner exceeds the partner's adjusted basis in its partnership interest. Section 7704 provides that generally publicly traded partnerships are taxed as corporations. However, an 14exception, referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception,” exists with respect to publicly traded partnerships of which 90 percent or more of the gross income for every taxable year consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code. We expect that we will meet the Qualifying Income Exception.If the Qualifying Income Exception is not available to us, then we will be treated as a corporation instead of a partnership. In that event, the deemed incorporation of SPLP should be tax-free. If we were taxed as a corporation, (i) our net income would be taxed at corporate income tax rates, thereby substantially reducing our profitability, (ii) our unitholders would not be allowed to deduct their share of losses of SPLP and (iii) distributions to our unitholders, other than liquidating distributions, would constitute dividends to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, and would be taxable as such.Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available.The U.S. federal income tax treatment of our unitholders depends in some instances on interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our Partnership Agreement permits our General Partner to modify it from time to time, including the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction (including unrealized gain and unrealized loss to the extent allowable under U.S. federal income tax law), without the consent of our unitholders, to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation or to preserve the uniformity of our common units. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all unitholders. In addition, we formed a subsidiary partnership, to which we contributed certain of our assets ("the “Subsidiary Partnership”). To preserve the uniformity of common units, we (but not the Subsidiary Partnership) will make an election permitted under Section 754 and we will adopt the remedial allocation method under Section 704(c) with respect to items of income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to assets contributed to us (which we will contribute to the Subsidiary Partnership), to account for any difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of contribution, or attributable to the “book-up” or “book-down” of our assets prior to their contribution to the Subsidiary Partnership, or while they were held by the Subsidiary Partnership, to account for the difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of a mark-to-market event. We intend generally to make allocations under Section 704(c) to our unitholders in accordance with their respective percentage interests. However, built-in gain or built-in loss in existence and allocable to the assets we contributed to the Subsidiary Partnership, when recognized, will be allocated to our unitholders as of the contribution date. We intend to prepare our tax returns on the basis that buyers of common units from such unitholders will not inherit such unitholders' built-in gains or built-in losses as of that date as a result of the election under Section 754. However, it is not clear whether this position will be upheld if challenged by the IRS. While we believe it represents the right result, there is no law directly on point. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.A holder of common units that is a tax-exempt organization may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation to the extent that its allocable share of our income consists of unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). We may borrow money. A tax-exempt partner of a partnership may be treated as earning UBTI if the partnership regularly engages in a trade or business that is unrelated to the exempt function of the tax-exempt partner, if the partnership derives income from debt-financed property or if the tax-exempt organization's partnership interest itself is debt-financed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.