Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common units. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common units could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our StructureThe unitholders have limited recourse to maintain actions against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager.The Limited Partnership Agreement of SPLP, or the “Partnership Agreement,” contains broad indemnification and exculpation provisions that limit the right of a unitholder to maintain an action against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager, or to recover losses or costs incurred by us as a result of their actions or failures to act.Our Partnership Agreement contains certain limitations on the voting rights of unitholders.Our Partnership Agreement contains specific provisions that are intended to comply with regulatory limitations on the ownership of our securities as a result of our ownership of WebBank. Under the Partnership Agreement, a person or group that acquires beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the common units without the prior approval of the Board of Directors may lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units in excess of 9.9%. We may have conflicts of interest with the minority shareholders of our businesses and decisions may need to be made by disinterested directors, without the participation of directors or officers associated with the Manager and the Company, which may be different from the decisions we would make. Companies in which we have interests but we do not control may make decisions that do not serve our interests and those of our unitholders.The boards of directors and officers of our respective businesses, including directors and officers associated with our Manager and the Company, have fiduciary duties to their shareholders. As a result, they may make decisions that are in the best interests of their shareholders generally but which are not necessarily in the best interest of our unitholders. In dealings with us, the directors and officers of our businesses may have conflicts of interest and decisions may have to be made without their participation. Such decisions may be different from the decisions we would make and may not be in the best interests of our common unitholders, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.13There are certain interlocking relationships among us and certain affiliates of Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman, which may present potential conflicts of interest. Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman and a substantial unitholder, is the Chief Executive Officer of our Manager. As of December 31, 2014, Mr. Lichtenstein directly owned approximately 9% of our outstanding common units. In addition, affiliates of our Manager beneficially own approximately 24% of our outstanding units, although Mr. Lichtenstein disclaims beneficial ownership of any common units not directly held by him. We have entered into transactions and/or agreements with these entities. There can be no assurance that such entities will not have interests in conflict with our own. Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest. Certain individual members of our management team may, from time to time, be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by our Manager and its affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved. We, as a diversified holding company, may have substantial limitations on our ability to sell interests in the underlying operating companies.We accumulate significant positions in underlying operating companies and have a significant role in the management of various underlying operating companies. As a result, we may face significant legal and market restrictions on selling our interests in the underlying operating companies. For example, employees of the Manager and SPH Services may also serve as managers or members of the board of directors of the underlying operating companies, and, thus, may receive material and confidential information concerning the operating companies that would preclude us, under federal securities laws, from trading securities of the relevant operating company. Some privately held businesses may be subject to shareholders agreements which may limit our ability to sell our interests in such companies. In addition, we may be limited in our ability to sell securities in an underlying operating company in light of the size of our ownership interest and the absence of liquidity in the market to absorb our ownership interest, or, alternatively, may be required to sell our ownership interest at a discounted and unfavorable price.Being classified as an “investment company” would subject us to numerous restrictions and requirements that would be inconsistent with the manner in which we operate our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.We plan to continue to conduct our business and operations in such a manner as not to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”).Investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. An entity may generally be deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act if (a) it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or (b) absent an applicable exemption, it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets (the “40% Test”). As a result of the Exchange Transaction, on July 14, 2009, we could no longer definitively conclude that we passed the 40% Test or were able to rely on any exception from the definition of an investment company.The Company has taken actions, including liquidating certain of our assets and acquiring additional interests in existing or new subsidiaries or controlled companies, to comply with the 40% Test, or a relevant exception. Also, since the Company operates as a diversified holding company engaged in a variety of operating businesses, we do not believe we are primarily engaged in an investment company type business, nor do we propose to primarily engage in such a business. Our intent to operate as a diversified holding company, and comply with the 40% test, may limit our ability to make certain investments, compel us to divest certain holdings, or to take or forego certain actions that could otherwise be beneficial to us.If we were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may need to further adjust our business strategy and assets, including divesting certain desirable assets immediately to fall outside of the definition or within an exemption, to register as an investment company (and subject to the aforementioned restrictions and requirements) or to cease operations.14Risks Related to Our BusinessWe conduct operations or own interests in companies with operations outside of the U.S., which may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with companies that operate solely in the U.S.We have operations or own interests in securities of companies with operations located outside the U.S. These holdings have additional risks, including risks relating to currency exchange matters, less developed or efficient financial markets than in the U.S., absence of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, differences in the legal and regulatory environment, different publicly available information in respect of companies in non-U.S. markets, economic and political risks, and possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not adversely affect our assets that are held in certain countries or the returns from these assets.Our businesses rely, and may rely, on their intellectual property and licenses to use others' intellectual property, for competitive advantage. If our businesses are unable to protect their intellectual property, are unable to obtain or retain licenses to use others' intellectual property, or if they infringe upon or are alleged to have infringed upon others' intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on their financial condition, business and results of operations.The success of each of our businesses depends in part on its, or licenses to use others', brand names, proprietary technology and manufacturing techniques. These businesses rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect their intellectual property rights. The steps they have taken to protect their intellectual property rights may not prevent third parties from using their intellectual property without their authorization or independently developing intellectual property that is similar. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our businesses' intellectual property rights effectively. Stopping unauthorized use of proprietary information and intellectual property, and defending claims of unauthorized use of others' proprietary information or intellectual property, may be difficult, time-consuming and costly and could subject our businesses to significant liability for damages and invalidate their property rights. Such unauthorized use could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage our businesses have developed, cause them to lose sales or otherwise harm their business.We are dependent on digital technologies to conduct our daily operations and maintain confidential information.The Company relies on information technology systems to both manage its daily operations and to secure its intellectual property. We use various protective measures to secure our systems from unauthorized access. However, a failure in or breach of operational or informational security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, as a result of information system failures or cyber attack, could disrupt business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, including customer and vendor lists, damage our reputation and investor confidence, increase security and remediation costs and cause losses, including potential lawsuits, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.Our businesses are and may be subject to federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations that expose them to potential financial liability. Complying with applicable environmental laws requires significant resources, and if our businesses fail to comply, they could be subject to substantial liability.Some of the facilities and operations of our businesses are, and may be, subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations pertaining to the handling, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes, and hazardous materials and wastes, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. Any material violations of these laws can lead to substantial liability, revocations of discharge permits, fines or penalties, which could negatively impact our financial condition, business and results of operations.Some of our businesses are subject to certain risks associated with the movement of businesses offshore.Some of our businesses are potentially at risk of losing business to competitors operating in lower cost countries. An additional risk is the movement offshore of some of our businesses' customers, leading them to procure products or services from more closely located companies. Either of these factors could negatively impact our financial condition, business and results of operations.15Our business strategy includes acquisitions which entail numerous risks.Our business strategy and the strategy of our businesses includes acquisitions and entails several risks, including the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and the need to finance such acquisitions with additional equity and/or debt. Any future acquisitions may also result in material changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities or the assets and liabilities of our businesses and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common units. In addition, once found, acquisitions entail further risks, including unanticipated costs and liabilities of the acquired businesses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses; negative effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and losing key employees of the acquired businesses.HNH sponsors a defined benefit pension plan which could subject it to substantial cash funding requirements in the future.HNH's ongoing operating cash flow requirements include arranging for the funding of the minimum requirements of the WHX Corporation Pension Plan ("WHX Pension Plan"). The performance of the financial markets and interest rates, as well as health care trends and associated mortality rates, impact our defined benefit pension plan expense and funding obligations. Significant changes in these factors, including adverse changes in discount rates, investment losses on plan assets and increases in participant life expectancy, may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial statements. Required future contributions are determined based upon assumptions regarding such matters as discount rates on future obligations, assumed rates of return on plan assets and legislative changes. Actual future pension costs and required funding obligations will be affected by changes in the factors and assumptions described in the previous sentence, as well as other changes such as any plan termination or other acceleration events. See Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this Form 10-K for additional information. WebBank operates in a highly regulated environment. Recent and ongoing legislative and regulatory actions may significantly affect our liquidity or financial condition. On July 21, 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended primarily to overhaul the financial regulatory framework following the global financial crisis and impacts all financial institutions, including WebBank. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and Financial Stability Oversight Council, consolidated certain federal bank regulators and imposed increased corporate governance and executive compensation requirements. While many of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institutions significantly larger than ours, the amount and complexity of regulations has increased our regulatory compliance burden and therefore has increased the Bank’s regulatory risk. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act, the so-called “Volcker Rule,” which generally restricts certain banking entities (including affiliates of depository institutions) from engaging in proprietary trading activities and owning equity in or sponsoring any private equity or hedge fund (collectively, "covered funds"). The Volcker Rule became effective July 21, 2012. The implementing regulations for the Volcker Rule were finalized by various regulatory agencies on December 10, 2013, although thereafter the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period until July 21, 2015. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve further extended the conformance period until July 21, 2016 with respect to investments in, and relationships with, covered funds and foreign funds subject to the Volcker Rule that were in place prior to December 31, 2013. The Federal Reserve also indicated that it eventually intends to grant a final one-year extension of the conformance period for investments in, and relationships with, such funds, until July 21, 2017. The end of the conformance period for proprietary trading activities and investments in, and relationships with, covered funds entered into on or after December 31, 2013 remains July 21, 2015. Under the regulations, following the end of each applicable conformance period, we (and our affiliates) are restricted from engaging in proprietary trading, investing in covered funds or sponsoring new covered funds unless our activities qualify for specified exemption under the rule or satisfy certain requirements under the rule. While we are a banking entity under the Volcker Rule, we do not expect the Volcker Rule to have a material impact on our business Furthermore, under the Dodd-Frank Act, all companies that directly or indirectly control an FDIC-insured bank are required to serve as a source of financial strength for such institution. As a result, SPLP could be called upon by the FDIC to infuse additional capital into WebBank to the extent that WebBank fails to satisfy its capital requirements, even if doing so may adversely affect SPLP’s ability to meet its other obligations. Currently, WebBank meets or exceeds all such requirements.16The U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. We cannot predict whether additional legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.WebBank may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, issued rules that implemented the Basel III changes to the international regulatory capital framework and revised the U.S. risk-based and leverage capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations in order to strengthen identified areas of weakness in capital rules and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rules apply to WebBank. Effective January 1, 2015 for WebBank, FDIC regulations implementing the Basel III Accord modified WebBank’s minimum capital requirements by adding a 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 ratio and increased the Tier 1 capital ratio requirement from 4% to 6%. Additionally, a Capital Conservation Buffer (composed solely of common equity Tier 1 capital) equal to 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements will be phased in starting January 1, 2016 until fully implemented on January 1, 2019. A failure of WebBank to maintain the aggregate minimum capital requirements and Capital Conservation Buffer will impair its ability to make certain distributions (including dividends and stock repurchases) and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. Although the Company currently cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that Basel III will have on WebBank and the banking industry more generally, WebBank is currently within the new regulations.Increased volatility in raw materials costs and availability may reduce revenues and profitability in our diversified industrial businesses.Certain of our Diversified Industrial operations are subject to risks associated with increased volatility in raw material prices and availability of key raw materials. If the price for raw materials continues to increase and our operations are not able to pass these price increases to their customers, or are unable to obtain key raw materials, our results of operations may be negatively impacted.Our energy segment is highly dependent on the activity level of the North American oil and gas industry. Our markets may be adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control. The level of oil and natural gas exploration and production activity in the United States is volatile. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, or a decrease in the development rate of reserves in our market areas, weakness in oil and natural gas prices, or our customers' perceptions that oil and natural gas prices will decrease in the future, could result in a reduction in the utilization of our equipment and result in lower revenues or rates for the services of our Energy segment. Our customers' willingness to undertake these activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by many factors over which we have no control. We and our businesses operate in highly competitive markets.We operate in a variety of competitive industries and market sectors. Many of our businesses' competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds than we or our businesses do and access to financing sources that may not be available to us or our businesses. In addition, some of our competitors and the competitors of our businesses may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of business opportunities than we or our businesses can. Risks Related to Our ManagerWe depend on Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager, and Jack Howard, the President of the Manager, in running our businesses. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results and financial condition.Our success depends on the efforts, skills, reputation and business contacts of Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager and Jack Howard, the President of the Manager. While the key members of the Manager have worked for the Manager and its affiliates for many years, our Manager does not have any employment agreements 17with any of the key members of its management team and their continued service is not guaranteed. The loss of the services of Mr. Lichtenstein or Mr. Howard could have a material adverse effect on our asset value, revenues, net income and cash flows and could harm our ability to maintain or grow our existing operations or pursue additional opportunities in the future.The interests of our Manager may not be aligned with our interests or those of our unitholders.Our Manager receives an annual Management Fee at a rate of 1.5% of total partner's capital, payable on the first day of each quarter, subject to quarterly adjustment. Our Manager is entitled to receive a Management Fee regardless of our net income. In addition, our Manager was granted partnership profits interests in the form of incentive units which may be classified into Class C common units of SPLP. The Manager may consider entering into or recommending riskier transactions that represent a potential higher reward in order for the Manager's units to be profitable. Any such riskier investment decisions or recommendations, if unsuccessful, could result in losses to us and a decline in the value of the common units.We cannot determine the amount of the Management Fee that will be paid over time with any certainty. The Management Fee is calculated by reference in part to our total partners' capital. Our total partners' capital will be impacted by the performance of our businesses and other businesses we may acquire in the future, as well as the issuance of additional common units. Changes in our total partners' capital and in the resulting Management Fee could be significant, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if our performance declines, assuming our total partners' capital remains the same, the Management Fee will increase as a percentage of our net income.Our Manager's liability is limited under the Management Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.Under the Management Agreement, our Manager, its members, officers, employees, affiliates, agents and legal representatives are not liable for, and we have agreed to indemnify such persons from, any loss or expense, including without limitations, any judgment, settlement, reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs and expenses incurred in connection with the defense of any actual or threatened proceeding, other than losses resulting from willful misconduct or gross negligence in the performance of such indemnified person's obligations and duties. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.Risks Related to our Common UnitsWe may issue additional common units in the future without the consent of unitholders and at a discount to the market price of such common units. In particular, sales of significant amounts of the common units may cause the price of the common units to decline.Under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, additional common units may be issued without the consent of unitholders at a discount to the market price. In addition, other classes of securities may be issued with rights that are senior to or which otherwise have preferential rights to the rights of the common units. Sales of significant amounts of the common units in the public market or the perception that such sales of significant amounts may occur could adversely affect its market price. Moreover, the perceived risk of any potential dilution could cause common unit holders to attempt to sell their common units and investors to “short” the common units, a practice in which an investor sells common units that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase common units later at a lower price to cover the sale. Any event that would cause the number of common units being offered for sale to increase would likely cause the common units' market price to further decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional common units in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.Risks Related to TaxationAll statutory references in this section are to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code.”Our unitholders may be subject to U.S. federal, state and other income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether they receive any cash distributions from us.The Company operates, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. Our unitholders will be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income 18tax on their allocable share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. We do not anticipate making any cash distributions or paying any cash dividends. Accordingly, our unitholders may be required to make tax payments in connection with their ownership of common units that significantly exceed their cash distributions in any given year.Our tax treatment is not assured. If we are taxed as a corporation, it could adversely impact our results of operations.A partnership is not a taxable entity and distributions by a partnership to a partner are generally not taxable to the partnership or the partner unless the amount of cash distributed to such partner exceeds the partner's adjusted basis in its partnership interest. Section 7704 provides that generally publicly traded partnerships are taxed as corporations. However, an exception, referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception,” exists with respect to publicly traded partnerships of which 90 percent or more of the gross income for every taxable year consists of “qualifying income” as defined in the Code. We expect that we will meet the Qualifying Income Exception. However, the Qualifying Income Exception will not apply if we register, or are required to register, as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.If the Qualifying Income Exception is not available to us, then we will be treated as a corporation instead of a partnership. In that event, the deemed incorporation of SPLP should be tax-free, unless the corporation is an investment company for tax purposes and the partners are treated as diversifying their interests. If we were taxed as a corporation, (i) our net income would be taxed at corporate income tax rates, thereby substantially reducing our profitability, (ii) our unitholders would not be allowed to deduct their share of losses of SPLP and (iii) distributions to our unitholders, other than liquidating distributions, would constitute dividends to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, and would be taxable as such.Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available.The U.S. federal income tax treatment of our unitholders depends in some instances on interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our Partnership Agreement permits our General Partner to modify it from time to time, including the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction (including unrealized gain and unrealized loss to the extent allowable under U.S. federal income tax law), without the consent of our unitholders, to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation or to preserve the uniformity of our common units. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all unitholders. In addition, we formed a subsidiary partnership, to which we contributed certain of our assets ("the “Subsidiary Partnership”). To preserve the uniformity of common units, we (but not the Subsidiary Partnership) will make an election permitted under Section 754 and we will adopt the remedial allocation method under Section 704(c) with respect to items of income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to assets contributed to us (which we will contribute to the Subsidiary Partnership), to account for any difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of contribution, or attributable to the “book-up” or “book-down” of our assets prior to their contribution to the Subsidiary Partnership, or while they were held by the Subsidiary Partnership, to account for the difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of a mark-to-market event. We intend generally to make allocations under Section 704(c) to our unitholders in accordance with their respective percentage interests. However, built-in gain or built-in loss in existence and allocable to the assets we contributed to the Subsidiary Partnership, when recognized, will be allocated to our unitholders as of the contribution date. We intend to prepare our tax returns on the basis that buyers of common units from such unitholders will not inherit such unitholders' built-in gains or built-in losses as of that date as a result of the election under Section 754. However, it is not clear whether this position will be upheld if challenged by the IRS. While we believe it represents the right result, there is no law directly on point.Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.A holder of common units that is a tax-exempt organization may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation to the extent that its allocable share of our income consists of unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). We may borrow money. A tax-exempt partner of a partnership may be treated as earning UBTI if the partnership regularly engages in a trade or business that is unrelated to the exempt function of the tax-exempt partner, if the partnership derives income from debt-financed property or if the tax-exempt organization's partnership interest itself is debt-financed.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.