ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cyclicality in the petrochemicals industry may result in reduced volumes or operating margins. The petrochemicals industry is cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns. Profitability is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and product prices. The cycles are generally characterized by periods of strong demand, leading to high operating rates and margins, followed by periods of oversupply relative to demand, primarily resulting from significant capacity additions or decreases in demand, leading to reduced operating rates and lower margins. Any significant downturn in the end markets 16 Table of Contents for our products or in general economic conditions could result in a material reduction in demand and margins for our products and could harm our business. We are unable to predict with certainty supply and demand balances, market conditions and other factors that will affect industry operating margins in the future. In addition, because we compete in limited segments of the petrochemicals industry and have less diversified operations than most of our competitors, a downturn in one or more of those specific segments may affect us more severely than our competitors who compete more broadly in the industry as a whole. We may reduce production at or idle a facility or a particular unit at a facility for an extended period of time or discontinue a product line because of an oversupply of a particular product and/or a lack of demand for that particular product, or high feedstock prices that make production uneconomical. In fiscal year 2009, we idled or shut down certain processing capability at our Houston and Port Neches facilities for reasons described above. Temporary idling or shutdowns sometimes last for several quarters or, in certain cases, longer, and cause us to incur costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. Factors such as increases in feedstock costs or lower demand in the future may cause us to further reduce capacity, idle facilities or discontinue product lines. Our efforts to obtain suitable quantities or qualities of raw material feedstock may not be successful, in which case our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with fluctuations in feedstock supply in both our C4 Processing and our Performance Products segments. Most of our contracts with our crude C4 suppliers obligate us to purchase a percentage of the output from a given facility, as opposed to a fixed volume. The contracts contain volume estimates, but the actual amount purchased varies based on what is actually produced by the supplier. Even for supply contracts that specify a fixed volume of feedstocks, as is the case for some agreements in our Performance Products segment, the suppliers are not always able to meet the fixed volume. The amounts our suppliers can produce are not tied to the amounts our customers need. If customer demand drops without a corresponding drop in supplier production, inventories may dramatically increase and result in significantly increased exposure to commodity price volatility. Similarly, if supplier production decreases without a corresponding drop in customer demand, inventories may dramatically decrease, forcing us to allocate our production and putting us at risk of default in our customer contracts. Moreover, to the extent that we are unable to obtain additional feedstock from current suppliers or other sources, our ability to grow our business could be constrained. Even if we can obtain raw material feedstock at cost effective prices, the quantity and type of such feedstock may not be sufficient to meet our production needs. Composition of the raw material feedstock varies greatly by source. In particular, crude C4 can be created by a variety of means, each resulting in a different mixture of the sub-component compounds vital to our production methods. A disproportionate amount of one sub-component over another in raw material feedstock can directly affect the types and quantities of products we can produce from our operations. While we contractually obligate our suppliers to certain minimum amounts of four-carbon compounds in the raw material feedstocks, there is typically an allowed margin of variability. Furthermore, some contracts do not specify a minimum amount of one sub-component over another due to the variation in crude C4 production by our suppliers. This creates uncertainty as to whether we will have enough of a particular sub-component to meet our production needs. Finally, there is no guarantee that new sources of raw material feedstocks will have the same sub-component makeup as existing sources. The volume of crude C4 produced by the ethylene production process is driven by both the volume of ethylene produced and the composition of the steam cracker feedstock. When light feedstocks, such as NGLs, are inexpensive relative to heavier feedstocks such as naphtha, ethylene crackers conduct primarily light cracking, resulting in lower volumes of crude C4 available in the market. This situation, which existed since fiscal 2009, occasionally results in our inability to meet 100% of our contractual butadiene and butene-1 sales commitments. When this occurs, we typically invoke force majeure clauses that exist in almost all of our butadiene and butene-1 sales contracts, allowing us to reduce, or “allocate,” the amount of product we deliver. From time to time since the latter part of fiscal 2009, we were forced to operate, and may again be forced to operate in the future, on a product allocation basis as a result of limited crude C4 feedstock supply. Moreover, due to continued light cracking and reduced operating rates of ethylene crackers, in April 2009 we undertook cost reduction initiatives that included a reduction of our active C4 processing and butadiene production capacity. We shut down one of the two trains processing crude C4 at our Port Neches facility and temporarily idled some capacity at our Houston facility, also reducing associated headcount. We have periodically reactivated the temporarily idled production capacity at our Houston facility, but we do not expect to operate the idled trains at Port Neches again until feedstock supply conditions improve. We anticipate that the relatively high cost of crude oil compared to the cost of natural gas that we have seen over the past four to five years will continue, especially in light of the abundance of shale natural gas being discovered and developed in the U.S., and will drive continuation of light cracking well into the future. An inability to produce sufficient quantity of our products, or a decline in production of our products due to a change in sub-component composition of our crude C4 feedstocks, could result in a failure to meet our obligations to our customers, and in turn could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents We may not have access to capital in the future due to changes in general economic conditions or the reduction in value of our assets. We may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, make acquisitions or refinance existing indebtedness. As of March 1, 2012 we had the ability to access the full availability under our Revolving Credit Facility of $175 million. Longer term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could result in higher interest rates on debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. Any further disruptions could increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, including our ability to grow our business through acquisitions. Because the Revolving Credit Facility is asset-based, the availability under the facility will decrease if the value of our trade accounts receivable or inventories decrease. Any sustained weakness in general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the United States or globally could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. Finally, in periods of low demand or decreased feedstock supply, the negative effect on our financial condition may cause the feedstock suppliers with whom we do business to require shorter payment terms or require letters of credit to secure payment. Complying with shorter payment terms or providing letters of credit would reduce our cash and/or the availability under our Revolving Credit Facility. Either of these outcomes would impact our liquidity, and could cause us to decrease our feedstock purchases or other expenditures, or otherwise negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in the petrochemicals industry may result in reduced material margin percentage or operating losses. Prices for our feedstocks and our finished products are related to the prices in the energy market as a whole, and, as such, can be volatile. The cost of our raw material feedstock purchases is usually determined by application of index-based formulas contained in many of our raw material supply contracts. Through these index-based formulas, our raw material costs are linked to commodity market indices (such as the published contract price for butadiene and indices based on the price of unleaded regular gasoline, butane, isobutane or propylene) or to the selling price of the related finished product. The selling prices for our finished products are also typically determined from index-based formulas contained in many of our sales contracts and, in most cases, the indices used to determine finished product selling prices are the same indices used to determine the cost of the corresponding raw material feedstock. The linkage between the costs of our raw material feedstocks and the selling prices of our finished products to the same indices mitigates, to varying degrees, our exposure to volatility in our material margin percentage (which we define as the difference between average revenue per pound and average raw material cost per pound as a percentage of average revenue per pound). Although these index-based pricing formulas provide relative stability in our material margin percentage over time, it is not perfectly constant due to various factors, including those listed below: • We may purchase raw material feedstocks in one period based on market indices for that period, and then sell the related finished products in a later period based on market indices for the later period. Changes in selling prices of finished products, based on changes in the underlying market indices between the period the raw material feedstocks are purchased and the related finished products are sold, lessens the effect of the matching indices and causes variation in our material margin percentage. For example, we may purchase crude C4 at pricing based on the January butadiene index but sell the finished butadiene at pricing based on the February butadiene index. If the butadiene index for January and February are the same, we would expect to realize substantially the same per-unit margins regardless of the absolute value of the index. However, if the index increases between January and February, we would realize a temporary margin expansion until pricing stabilizes; and conversely, if the index decreases we would realize a temporary margin contraction. The magnitude of the effect on material margin percentage depends on the magnitude of the change in the underlying indices between the period the raw material is purchased and the period the finished product is sold and the quantity of inventory impacted by the change. • Although most of our supply and sales contracts contain index-based formulas, varying proportions of our raw material purchases and finished product sales are done on a spot basis or otherwise negotiated terms. In addition, while many of the index-based formulas in our contracts are simply based on a percentage of the relevant index, others apply adjustment factors to the market indices that do not fluctuate with changes in the underlying index. In periods when market indices are high, the use of non-fluctuating adjustment factors tends to reduce the material margin percentage; and conversely, in periods when market indices are low the non-fluctuating adjustment factors tend to increase the material margin percentage. 18 Table of Contents • Finished product selling price formulas under some of our sales contracts, primarily in the Performance Products segment, are based on commodity indices not for the period in which the sale occurs but for either a prior or subsequent period. The effect on profit margins of these selling price formulas is diminished during times of relatively stable market indices, but can have a substantial effect during times of rapidly increasing or decreasing market indices, which can impact our material margin percentage. Because our contractual arrangements do not insulate us from all changes in commodity prices, volatile petrochemicals and unleaded gasoline markets can materially and adversely affect our material margin percentage and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive and, if we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. The petrochemicals industry is, generally, highly competitive. Due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in our industry is based primarily on price and to a lesser extent on customer service, technology, reliability, product quality, product deliverability and product performance. As a result, we generally are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation. Moreover, we compete with other companies in our industry for the feedstocks we need to produce our products. If our production costs are higher than our competitors due to supply-side competition or other factors, we may have difficulty recovering those higher costs from our customers due to the commodity nature of our products. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Among our competitors are some of the world’s largest chemical companies and major integrated petroleum companies that have their own raw materials resources. In addition, a significant portion of our business is based on widely available technology. Accordingly, barriers to entry, apart from capital availability, may be low in the commodity product section of our business, and the entrance of new competitors may reduce our ability to maintain profit margins in circumstances where capacity utilization in the industry is diminishing. Also, some petroleum-rich countries have recently become more significant participants in the petrochemicals industry and may expand their petrochemicals operations significantly in the future. Any significant increases in competition from existing or new industry participants could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of a large customer, or failure to retain contracts with an existing customer, could significantly reduce our profitability and cash flows. A small number of our customers account for a significant percentage of our total revenues. Our top five customers accounted for an aggregate of 49.2%, 46.2%, 48.0%, 44.5%, 44.6% and 45.6% of our total revenues in calendar 2011 and 2010, the six months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. During calendar 2011, Firestone Polymers LLC and Invista S.àr.l.l accounted for 14% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenues and during the six months ended December 31, 2010, Firestone Polymers LLC and Invista S.àr.l.l accounted for 11% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenues. We could lose a large customer for a variety of reasons, including as a result of a merger, consolidation or bankruptcy. In addition, customers are increasingly pursuing arrangements with suppliers that can meet a larger portion of their needs on a more global basis. The loss of one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of a large supplier, or failure to retain contracts with an existing supplier, could significantly reduce our profitability and cash flows. A small number of suppliers for our feedstocks account for a significant percentage of our feedstock purchases. Our top five suppliers accounted for an aggregate of 42.6%, 31.9%, 39.3%, 44.6%, 35.7% and 34.6% of our vendor purchases in calendar 2011and 2010, the six months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. We could lose a large supplier for a variety of reasons, including as a result of a merger or consolidation. In addition, suppliers in our industry are increasingly pursuing arrangements with customers that can off take a larger portion of their production streams on a more global basis. The loss of one or more of our large suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In calendar 2011 one supplier accounted for greater than 10% of total vendor purchases. TPCGI’s organizational documents and investment agreement give certain of TPCGI’s large stockholders the ability to prevent us from taking certain actions that TPCGI’s Board of Directors or a majority of TPCGI’s stockholders may determine are in our best interests. In connection with TPCGI’s emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2004, TPCGI adopted organizational documents and entered into an investment agreement that granted certain consent rights to two of TPCGI’s large stockholders, Castlerigg Master Investments, Ltd. (“Castlerigg”) and RCG Carpathia Master Fund, Ltd. (“RCG”). As a result, for so long as these stockholders 19 Table of Contents collectively hold at least 10% of TPCGI’s outstanding stock, we may not, among other things, increase the number of shares of stock TPCGI is authorized to issue, issue preferred stock, adopt provisions in TPCGI’s organizational documents that could make an acquisition of TPCGI more onerous or costly, or change other specified provisions in TPCGI’s organizational documents, in each case without each of Castlerigg’s and RCG’s consent. According to SEC filings made by these stockholders prior to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Castlerigg beneficially owned approximately 2.5% of TPCGI’s outstanding stock and, an affiliate of RCG beneficially owned approximately 9.4% of TPCGI’s outstanding stock. TPCGI’s organizational documents and the investment agreement allow Castlerigg and RCG to exercise their consent rights in their sole discretion and in their self-interest. If either of these stockholders were to elect to withhold their consent with respect to a potential transaction or other initiative, we might be prevented from effecting that transaction or initiative even if TPCGI’s Board of Directors or a majority of TPCGI’s stockholders determine that doing so would benefit us or TPCGI’s stockholders. For example, we will be required to obtain the consent of Castlerigg and RCG to increase TPCGI’s authorized common stock or to authorize the issuance of preferred stock. Currently TPCGI’s certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 25 million shares of common stock, of which approximately 17.0 million shares have been issued or are reserved for issuance, or are subject to outstanding stock awards. Accordingly, our ability to issue equity currently is limited to approximately 8.0 million authorized shares of common stock, and no shares of preferred stock. If Castlerigg and RCG withheld their consent to increase TPCGI’s authorized stock, our liquidity and access to capital, and/or our ability to consummate strategic transactions, could be adversely affected. Global economic conditions may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Conditions in the global economy and global capital markets may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations in a timely fashion. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable from that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Further, suppliers may be experiencing similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us or to deliver the quantity of feedstocks we expect. Our C4 Processing business is subject to seasonality. The pricing under our supply contracts and sales contracts is usually tied to a commodity price index, such as indices based on the price of unleaded regular gasoline, butane, isobutane or propylene, or to the price at which we sell the finished product. The price for unleaded regular gasoline, typically used in pricing for butene-1, MTBE and raffinates, varies seasonally as a result of increased demand during the spring and summer months of the year and decreased demand during the fall and winter months of the year. In addition, we typically have greater demand for our raffinates and MTBE products during the spring and summer months. As a result, we generally have increased volumes and margins for these products during the spring and summer and decreased volumes and margins during the fall and winter. Our operations and assets are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution and protection of the environment, including those relating to the generation, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous substances and wastes, the discharges of waste water, and the emission of air pollutants or contaminants. In the ordinary course of business, we undertake frequent environmental inspections and monitoring and are subject to investigations by governmental enforcement authorities. Our production facilities require a number of environmental permits and authorizations that are subject to renewal, modification and, in certain circumstances, revocation. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements or the discovery of releases of hazardous substances at or from our facilities could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations and product distribution/sales, significant remedial expenditures, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some environmental laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. In addition, we cannot accurately predict future developments, such as increasingly strict environmental laws or regulations, and inspection and enforcement policies, as well as resulting higher compliance costs, which might affect the handling, manufacture, or use of our products or the handling, use, emission, disposal and/or cleanup of other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and we cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Those liabilities and costs may be material. 20 Table of Contents The operation of any chemical manufacturing plant entails risk of adverse environmental events, including exposure to chemical products and byproducts from operations, and we can provide no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred to rectify any such damage. Our operations are inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances that may make us liable to governmental entities or private parties. This may involve contamination associated with our current and former facilities, facilities to which we sent wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal and other contamination. Accidental discharges may occur in the future, future action may be taken in connection with past discharges, governmental agencies may assess damages or penalties against us in connection with any past or future contamination, or third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. In addition, we may be liable for existing contamination related to certain of our facilities for which, in some cases, we believe third parties are liable in the event such third parties fail to perform their obligations. For more detailed information relating to the environment and safety regulations to which our operations are subject, please read “Environmental and Safety Matters” under Item 1 above. Regulation of GHG emissions may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Passage of climate change legislation or other federal or state legislative or regulatory initiatives that regulate or restrict GHG emissions in areas in which we conduct business could adversely affect the demand for our products, and depending on the particular program adopted, could increase the costs of our operations, including costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and/or administer and manage a GHG emissions program. These costs may be material and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to claims associated with our production of MTBE. Through our Houston, Texas processing facility, we have been one of the leading producers by production capacity of MTBE in North America. Our Port Neches, Texas facility was, prior to its acquisition by us, also a significant producer of MTBE. MTBE is a gasoline blending stock which reduces carbon monoxide and volatile organic compound emissions and enhances the octane content of unleaded gasoline. MTBE came into high demand in the 1990s to meet the oxygenate mandate imposed on domestic unleaded gasoline requirements under the Clean Air Act of 1990. As a result of the enactment of the energy bill in August 2005, the oxygenate mandate has been eliminated from the regulatory framework for unleaded gasoline. As a result, most U.S. domestic refiners have discontinued their use of MTBE in unleaded gasoline in the United States. We no longer sell MTBE in the United States market, focusing instead on opportunistic sales in export markets. We no longer produce MTBE at our Port Neches facility, and at our Houston facility we produce MTBE only as a by-product of our C4 processing operations, rather than from dedicated dehydrogenation units. The contemplated restart of one of the dehydrogenation units would provide us with the flexibility to produce MTBE for sale into international markets. From time to time, legal actions may be initiated against us for alleged property damage and/or costs of remediation and replacement of water supplies due to the potential presence of MTBE, generally as a result of unleaded gasoline leakage from underground storage tanks. Please see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings,” for a description of legal proceedings against or affecting us arising from MTBE. There can be no assurance, as to when lawsuits and related issues may arise or be resolved or the degree of any adverse affect these matters may have on our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial settlement payment or judgment could result in a significant decrease in our working capital and liquidity and recognition of a loss in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. New regulations concerning the production, transportation, use and disposal of hazardous chemicals and the security of chemical manufacturing facilities could result in higher operating costs. Some of the raw materials we use and products we generate are considered hazardous materials or substances. For example, butadiene has been identified as a carcinogen in laboratory animals at high doses and is being studied for its potential adverse health effects on humans. Effective February 1997, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration substantially lowered the permissible employee exposure limit for butadiene. Future studies on the health effects of butadiene may result in additional regulations that further restrict the use of, and exposure to, butadiene. Additional regulation of butadiene or other products or materials used in or generated by our operations could require us to change our operations, and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, targets such as chemical manufacturing facilities may be at greater risk of terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. The chemical industry responded to the issues surrounding the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 through initiatives relating to the security of chemicals industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. In addition, local, state and federal governmental authorities have instituted various regulatory processes that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Any substantial increase in costs attributable to complying with such new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Our operations depend on a limited number of key facilities, and the loss or shutdown of operations at one or more of these facilities would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have three significant processing facilities, which are located in Houston, Texas, Port Neches, Texas and Baytown, Texas. The loss or shutdown of operations over an extended period of time at one or more of these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations, and those of our customers and suppliers, are subject to the usual hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of feedstocks, products and wastes, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters (including hurricanes and flooding), mechanical failure, pipeline leaks and ruptures, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance at levels which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practice, but there can be no assurance that we will not incur losses beyond the limits or outside the coverage of our insurance policies. Further, as a part of normal recurring operations, certain of our processing units may be completely shut down from time to time, for a period typically lasting two to four weeks, to replace catalysts and perform major maintenance work required to sustain long-term production. These shutdowns are commonly referred to as “turnarounds.” While actual timing is subject to a number of variables, turnarounds typically occur every three to five years. We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers. Many of our products provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that are in turn sold to consumers. These consumers could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant or which could cause our customers to seek contribution from us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our applicable insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Portions of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights, these businesses could be materially adversely affected. We presently own, control or hold rights to 19 U.S. patents and 53 foreign patents, and we seek patent protection for our proprietary processes where feasible to do so. We have several patented processes and applications, such as our patents related to HR-PIB and the catalyst mechanism for the polymerization of PIB and DIB, that give certain products differentiated features. With technology being a key competitive factor in the markets served by our Performance Products segment and a significant driver to producing the best quality products, these patented processes and licenses enhance our product offerings to our customers. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. Proceedings to protect these rights could be costly and we may not prevail. While a presumption of validity exits with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, as patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become generally available for use by competitors. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products and processes. Any of these occurrences could materially impact our business, particularly with respect to our HR-PIB product and our Performance Products segment generally. Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or our information, or damage to our reputation. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 22 Table of Contents Any acquisitions we make may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results, fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire or are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. We believe that attractive acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction, and we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. We may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of TPCGI’s common stock. Any future acquisition could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other operations or assets, our financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be unable to implement an important component of our business strategy successfully. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by the loss of senior management personnel. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior management, as well as our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the continued development of our businesses. The loss of the services of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our key employees. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities, such as our initiative to restart our dehydrogenation assets at our Houston facility) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. Delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and permits; • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; • disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; • adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; • market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our operations. Some of the employees at our Port Neches facility are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire on January 31, 2015. To the extent that we experience work stoppages in the future as a result of labor disagreements, a prolonged labor disturbance at one or more of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The market price and trading volume of TPCGI’s common stock may be volatile. The market price of TPCGI’s common stock could fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • failures of our operating results to meet the expectations of our stockholders; • announcements by us or our customers, suppliers or competitors; • changes in laws or regulations which adversely affect our industry or us; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • general economic, industry and stock market conditions; • future sales of TPCGI’s common stock; and • the other factors described in these “Risk Factors” and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10K. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. In October 2010 TPCGLLC refinanced its Term Loan by issuing a $350 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/4% Senior Secured Notes (the “Notes”). As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding debt consisting of $348.0 million of the Notes and no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. We also have $175 million of availability of under the Revolving Credit Facility, which, if borrowed, would effectively rank senior to the Notes to the extent of the collateral securing the Revolving Credit Facility on a first-priority basis. Our significant debt could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. For example, it could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to paying the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other corporate purposes; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. The agreements and instruments governing our debt place specified limitations on incurrence of additional debt. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks would intensify. The indenture governing the Notes and the agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indenture governing the Notes and the agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility impose restrictions on us which limit our ability, among other things, to: 24 Table of Contents • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or certain other distributions on TPCGI’s stock or repurchase TPCGI’s stock; • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • place restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies; • guarantee indebtedness; and • create liens. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is highly sensitive to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be available or successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. Additionally, the indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility will limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed, under these documents, to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 