Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all of the information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Catastrophic or other significant natural or man-made losses may negatively affect our financial and operating results. As a property and casualty insurer, we are subject to claims from catastrophes that may have a significant negative impact on operating and financial results. We have experienced catastrophe losses and can be expected to experience catastrophe losses in the future. Catastrophe losses can be caused by various events, including coastal storms, snow storms, ice storms, freezing temperatures, hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, wind, hail, fires, and other natural or man-made disasters. The frequency, number and severity of these losses are unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain and snow. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of weather events, such as hurricanes. To the extent climate change does increase the frequency and severity of such weather events, we may face increased claims, including with respect to properties located in coastal areas. We attempt to reduce our exposure to catastrophe losses through the underwriting process and by obtaining reinsurance coverage. However, in the event that we experience catastrophe losses, we cannot assure you that our unearned premiums, loss reserves and reinsurance will be adequate to cover these risks. In addition, because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to write new business also could be adversely affected. We characterize as a “catastrophe” any event that is classified as such by the Property Claims Services (“PCS”) unit of Insurance Services Office, Inc. PCS defines industry catastrophes as events that cause $25 million or more in direct insured losses to property and that affect a significant number of policyholders and insurers. In 2006 and 2007, annual losses incurred by us from such events, net of reinsurance, were approximately $1.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively. In 2008, the industry experienced an unusually high level of catastrophe losses. According to the PCS, there were 37 catastrophic events in the United States in 2008, compared to an annual average of 24 events over the previous nine year period. The estimated $25.2 billion of industry losses in 2008, although not unusually high when compared to 2004 and 2005, did exceed the $15.9 billion of losses for the previous two years combined. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred approximately $4.9 million of catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance. With a broad geographic scope of business, we were impacted by 19 of the 37 designated catastrophic events, most of which included a high number of smaller losses that did not penetrate our catastrophe or per risk excess of loss reinsurance coverage. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred approximately $2.0 million of catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance. Our financial condition and results of operations also are affected periodically by losses caused by natural perils such as those described above that are not deemed a catastrophe. If a number of these events occur in a short time period, it may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. 25 A reduction in our A.M. Best rating could affect our ability to write new business or renew our existing business. Ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor influencing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best ratings, which are reviewed at least annually, represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Therefore, our A.M. Best rating should not be relied upon as a basis for an investment decision to purchase our common stock. Penn Millers Insurance Company holds a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, the fourth highest rating out of 15 rating classifications. Penn Millers Insurance Company has held an A- rating for the past 16 years, and has been rated A- or higher every year since we were first rated in 1918. Our most recent evaluation by A.M. Best occurred on June 23, 2009. Financial strength ratings are used by producers and customers as a means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. If our financial position deteriorates, we may not maintain our favorable financial strength rating from A.M. Best. A downgrade of our rating could severely limit or prevent us from writing desirable business or from renewing our existing business. In addition, a downgrade could negatively affect our ability to implement our strategies. Turmoil in the capital markets and the economic downturn may impact our business activity level, results of operations, capital position and stock price. Our business prospects, results of operations and capital position are affected by financial market conditions and general economic conditions. Pressures on the global economy and financial markets commenced in the third quarter of 2007, accelerated significantly in the third quarter of 2008, and continued into 2010. Rising unemployment, decreasing real estate and commodity prices, decreasing consumer spending and business investment, unprecedented stock price volatility and a significant slowdown in the economy have had a negative impact on the financial markets. It is not possible to predict whether conditions will deteriorate further or when the outlook will improve. As a result, the value of the securities we hold as investments may decline, negatively affecting our earnings and capital level through realized and unrealized investment losses. If adverse economic conditions negatively affect companies who issue the securities we hold, and reinsurers on whom we rely to help pay insurance claims, our liquidity level may suffer, we may experience insurance losses and it may be necessary to write-down securities we hold, due to issuer defaults or ratings downgrades. In December 2008, we sold all of our equity investments for a realized loss of $4.5 million, which was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2009, our investment portfolio, which consisted entirely of fixed maturity investments, had unrealized gains, before taxes, of approximately $6.0 million and unrealized losses of approximately $0.6 million. In the event of a protracted recession, we may experience significant challenges. These may include an increase in lapsed premiums and policies and a reduction of new business, declining premium revenues from our workers’ compensation products due to our insureds’ declining payrolls, and declining premiums as a result of business failures. In addition, increases in both legitimate and fraudulent claims may result from a protracted and deep recession. An adverse economic environment could affect the recovery of deferred policy acquisition costs, and deferred tax assets may not be realizable. Finally, if adverse economic conditions affect the ability of our reinsurers to pay claims, we could experience significant losses that could impair our financial condition. Our investment performance may suffer as a result of adverse capital market developments, which may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. We invest the premiums we receive from policyholders until cash is needed to pay insured claims or other expenses. Our investments are subject to a variety of investment risks, including risks relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit risk. An unexpected increase in the volume or severity of claims may force us to liquidate securities, which may cause us to incur capital losses. If we do not structure the duration of our investments to match our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such payments. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base and statutory surplus, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. See Item 7A - “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The geographic distribution of our business exposes us to significant natural disasters, which may negatively affect our financial and operating results. Approximately 35% of our business is concentrated in the southeastern United States, which is prone to tornadoes and hurricanes. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 22% of our direct premiums written originated from business written in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, and therefore, we have a greater exposure to catastrophic or other significant natural or man-made losses in that geographic region. The incidence and severity of such events are inherently unpredictable. In recent years, changing climate conditions have increased the unpredictability, severity and frequency of tornados, hurricanes, and other storms. States and regulators from time to time have taken action that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage these risks, such as prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas, or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. Our ability or willingness to manage our exposure to these risks may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment, or social responsibilities. We may choose to write business in catastrophe-prone geographic areas that we might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving our access to other underwriting opportunities. Our ability to properly estimate reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties, and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. These complex factors include, but are not limited to the following: 26 • determining whether damages were caused by flooding versus wind; • evaluating general liability and pollution exposures; • the impact of increased demand for products and services necessary to repair or rebuild damaged properties; • infrastructure disruption; • fraud; • the effect of mold damage; • business interruption costs; and • reinsurance collectability. The estimates related to catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims are filed and additional information becomes available. This adjustment could reduce income during the period in which the adjustment is made, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Losses resulting from political instability, acts of war or terrorism may negatively affect our financial and operating results. Numerous classes of business are exposed to terrorism related catastrophic risks. The frequency, number and severity of these losses are unpredictable. As a result, we have changed our underwriting protocols to address terrorism and the limited availability of terrorism reinsurance. However, given the uncertainty of the potential threats, we cannot be sure that we have addressed all the possibilities. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as extended by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, is effective for the period from November 26, 2002 through December 31, 2014. Prior to the act, insurance coverage by private insurers for losses (other than workers’ compensation) arising out of acts of terrorism was severely limited. The act provides, among other things, that all licensed insurers must offer coverage on most commercial lines of business for acts of terrorism. Losses arising out of acts of terrorism that are certified as such by the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States and that exceed $100 million will be reimbursed by the federal government subject to a limit of $100 billion in any year and less a deductible calculated for each insurer. Each insurance company is responsible for a deductible based on a percentage of its direct earned premiums in the previous calendar year. For 2010, our deductible is approximately $14.4 million. For losses in excess of the deductible, the federal government will reimburse 85% of the insurer’s loss, up to the insurer’s proportionate share of the $100 billion. Notwithstanding the protection provided by reinsurance and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism has not been eliminated. Our reinsurance contracts include various limitations or exclusions limiting the reinsurers’ obligation to cover losses caused by acts of terrorism. Accordingly, events constituting acts of terrorism may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of, our reinsurance and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry, and we are currently in a “soft market” phase of the insurance industry cycle, which may lead to reduced premium volume. Results of companies in the insurance industry, and particularly the property and casualty insurance industry, historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry’s profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made and natural catastrophes; • changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liability develop; and • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. Historically, the financial performance of the insurance industry has fluctuated in cyclical periods of low premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition (a so-called “soft market”), followed by periods of high premium rates and a shortage of underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition (a so-called “hard market”). Fluctuations in underwriting capacity, demand and competition, and the impact on our business of the other factors identified above, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that underwriting capacity and price competition in the current market are indicative of a “soft market” phase of the insurance industry cycle. This additional underwriting capacity has resulted in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the kinds or amounts of insurance coverage they offer and causes some insurers to seek to maintain market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. During the last three years, we have experienced increased price competition with regard to most of our product lines. 27 Because estimating future losses is difficult and uncertain, if our actual losses exceed our loss reserves our operating results may be adversely affected. We maintain reserves to cover amounts we estimate will be needed to pay for insured losses and for the expenses necessary to settle claims. Estimating loss and loss expense reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments. We regularly review our reserve estimate protocols and our overall amount of reserves. We review historical data and consider the impact of various factors such as: • trends in claim frequency and severity; • information regarding each claim for losses; • legislative enactments, judicial decisions and legal developments regarding damages; and • trends in general economic conditions, including inflation. Our actual losses could exceed our reserves. If we determine that our loss reserves are inadequate, we will have to increase them. This adjustment would reduce income during the period in which the adjustment is made, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Such adjustments to loss reserve estimates are referred to as “loss development.” If existing loss reserves exceed the revised estimate, it is referred to as positive loss development. Negative loss development occurs when the revised estimate of expected losses with respect to a calendar year exceed existing loss reserves. For example, our loss and loss expense reserve for the 2000 calendar year has experienced a cumulative negative loss development of $8.8 million (a 30.0% deficiency) as of December 31, 2009, while our loss and loss expense reserve for the 2005 calendar year experienced a cumulative positive loss development of $2.1 million (a 3.5% excess) as of December 31, 2009. For additional information, see Item 1 - “Business — Losses and LAE Reserves.” If our reinsurers do not pay our claims in accordance with our reinsurance agreements, we may incur losses. We are subject to loss and credit risk with respect to the reinsurers with whom we deal because buying reinsurance does not relieve us of our liability to policyholders. If our reinsurers are not capable of fulfilling their financial obligations to us, our insurance losses would increase. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we ceded 17.5% of our gross written premiums to our reinsurers. We secure reinsurance coverage from a number of reinsurers. The lowest A.M. Best rating issued to any of our reinsurers is “A-” (Excellent), which is the fourth highest of fifteen ratings. See Item 1 – “Business – Reinsurance.” We may be unable to effectively develop and market new products, like PennEdge, which may negatively affect our operations. Our ability to expand our business and to compete depends on our ability to successfully develop and market new products, like PennEdge. The success of new products such as PennEdge depends on many factors, including our ability to anticipate and satisfy customer needs, develop our products cost-effectively, differentiate our products from our competitors, and, where applicable, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis. However, even if we successfully develop new products, the success of those products will be dependent upon market acceptance. Market acceptance could be affected by several factors, including, but not limited to: • the availability of alternative products from our competitors; • the price of our product relative to our competitors; • the commissions paid to producers for the sale of our products relative to our competitors; • the timing of our market entry; and • our ability to market and distribute our products effectively. The successful development and marketing of PennEdge and other products will require a significant investment. Our failure to effectively develop and market PennEdge and other products may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The property and casualty insurance market in which we operate is highly competitive, which limits our ability to increase premiums for our products and recruit new producers. Competition in the property and casualty insurance business is based on many factors. These factors include the perceived financial strength of the insurer, premiums charged, policy terms and conditions, services provided, reputation, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies and the experience of the insurer in the line of insurance to be written. We compete with stock insurance companies, mutual companies, local cooperatives and other underwriting organizations. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and operating resources than we have. Many of the lines of insurance we write are subject to significant price competition. If our competitors price their products aggressively, our ability to grow or renew our business may be adversely affected. We pay producers on a commission basis to produce business. Some of our competitors may offer higher commissions or insurance at lower premium rates through the use of salaried personnel or other distribution methods that do not rely primarily on independent producers (as we do). Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business and thereby reduce our profits from operations. 28 Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any loss of business from key producers. Our products are primarily marketed by independent producers. Other insurance companies compete with us for the services and allegiance of these producers. These producers may choose to direct business to our competitors, or may direct less desirable risks to us. One producer, Arthur J. Gallagher Risk Management Services, which writes business for us through nine offices, accounted for $12.2 million or approximately 14% of our direct premiums written in 2009. Only one other producer accounted for more than 5% of our 2009 direct premiums written. If we experience a significant decrease in business from, or lose entirely, our largest producers it would have a material adverse effect on us. Assessments and premium surcharges for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Most states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to participate in guaranty funds, which require the insurance companies to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are expected to continue in the future. State guaranty associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies are engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our written premiums. Some states also have laws that establish second injury funds to reimburse insurers and employers for claims paid to injured employees for aggravation of prior conditions or injuries. These funds are supported by either assessments or premium surcharges based on incurred losses. In addition, as a condition to conducting business in some states, insurance companies are required to participate in residual market programs to provide insurance to those who cannot procure coverage from an insurance carrier on a negotiated basis. Insurance companies generally can fulfill their residual market obligations by, among other things, participating in a reinsurance pool where the results of all policies provided through the pool are shared by the participating insurance companies. Although we price our insurance to account for our potential obligations under these pooling arrangements, we may not be able to accurately estimate our liability for these obligations. Accordingly, mandatory pooling arrangements may cause a decrease in our profits. At December 31, 2009, we participated in mandatory pooling arrangements in the majority of the states in which we do business. As we write policies in new states that have mandatory pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in additional pooling arrangements. Further, the impairment, insolvency or failure of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability for other members in the pool. The effect of assessments and premium surcharges or increases in such assessments or surcharges could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. See Item 1 - “Business – Regulation.” Our revenues may fluctuate with our investment results and changes in interest rates. Our investment portfolio is comprised entirely of fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2009, including bonds, mortgage-backed securities (MBSs) and other securities. The fair values of these invested assets fluctuate depending upon economic conditions, particularly changes in interest rates. MBSs are subject to prepayment risks that vary with, among other things, interest rates. MBSs represented approximately $28.3 million or approximately 17% of our investments at December 31, 2009. During periods of declining interest rates, MBSs generally return principal faster than expected as the underlying mortgages are prepaid and/or refinanced by the borrowers in order to take advantage of the lower rates. MBSs with an amortized cost that is greater than par (i.e., purchased at a premium) may incur a reduction in yield or a loss as a result of prepayments. In addition, during such periods, we generally will be unable to reinvest the proceeds of any prepayment at comparable yields. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the frequency of prepayments generally decreases. MBSs that have an amortized value that is less than par (i.e., purchased at a discount) may incur a decrease in yield or a loss as a result of slower prepayments. We may not be able to prevent or minimize the negative impact of interest rate changes. Additionally, unforeseen circumstances may force us to sell certain of our invested assets at a time when their fair values are less than their original cost, resulting in realized capital losses, which would reduce our net income. For example, the precipitous decline in stock market prices in the second half of 2008 resulted in our decision to sell the balance of the equity securities in our investment portfolio in December 2008 for a pre-tax net realized loss of $4.5 million. Volatility in commodity and other prices could impact our financial results. We provide insurance coverages to mills, silos, and other agribusinesses, which store large quantities of commodities such as corn, wheat and soybeans. Therefore, the amount of our losses is affected by the value of these commodities. Volatility in commodity prices may be a result of many factors, including, but not limited to, shortages or excess supply created by weather changes, catastrophes, changes in global or local demand, or the rise or fall of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. Unexpected increases in commodity prices could result in our losses exceeding our actual reserves for our agribusiness lines. Such volatility in commodity prices could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the cost of construction materials and prevailing labor costs in areas affected by widespread storm damage can significantly impact our casualty losses. Higher costs for construction materials and shortages of skilled contractors such as electricians, plumbers and carpenters can increase the cost to repair or replace an insured property. 29 Proposals to federally regulate the insurance business could affect our business. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business. However, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. These proposals generally would maintain state-based regulation of insurance, but would affect state regulation of certain aspects of the insurance business, including rates, producer and company licensing, and market conduct examinations. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to comply with insurance industry regulations, or if those regulations become more burdensome, we may not be able to operate profitably. We are regulated by the Pennsylvania Insurance Department, as well as, to a more limited extent, the federal government and the insurance departments of other states in which we do business. As of December 31, 2009 approximately 22% of our direct premiums written originated from business written in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Therefore, the cancellation or suspension of our license in these states, as a result of any failure to comply with the applicable insurance laws and regulations, may negatively impact our operating results. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than shareholders and other investors. These regulations relate to, among other things: • approval of policy forms and premium rates; • standards of solvency, including establishing requirements for minimum capital and surplus, and for risk-based capital; • classifying assets as admissible for purposes of determining solvency and compliance with minimum capital and surplus requirements; • licensing of insurers and their producers; • advertising and marketing practices; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • assessments by guaranty associations and mandatory pooling arrangements; • restrictions on the ability to pay dividends; • restrictions on transactions between affiliated companies; • restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • periodic examinations of our operations and finances; • claims practices; • prescribing the form and content of reports of financial condition required to be filed; and • requiring reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes. The Pennsylvania Insurance Department also conducts periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and requires the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. Our last completed examination was as of December 31, 2004, and an examination for the years ended 2005 through 2009 is currently in progress. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. 30 Our ability to manage our exposure to underwriting risks depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance coverage. Reinsurance is the practice of transferring part of an insurance company’s liability and premium under an insurance policy to another insurance company. We use reinsurance arrangements to limit and manage the amount of risk we retain, to stabilize our underwriting results and to increase our underwriting capacity. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to current market conditions and may vary significantly over time. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss. We may be unable to maintain our desired reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or obtain new coverage, it will be difficult for us to manage our underwriting risks and operate our business profitably. It is also possible that the losses we experience on risks we have reinsured will exceed the coverage limits on the reinsurance. If the amount of our reinsurance coverage is insufficient, our insurance losses could increase substantially. We could be adversely affected by the loss of our existing management or key employees. The success of our business is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to attract and retain key employees, in particular our senior officers. These key officers have an average of over twenty years of experience in the property and casualty insurance industry. Our business may be adversely affected if labor market conditions make it difficult for us to replace our current key officers with individuals having equivalent qualifications and experience at compensation levels competitive for our industry. In particular, because of the shortage of experienced underwriters and claims personnel who have experience or training in the agribusiness sector of the insurance industry, replacing key employees in that line of our business could be challenging. While we have employment agreements with a number of key officers, we do not have agreements not to compete or employment agreements with most of our employees. Our employment agreements with our key officers have change of control provisions that provide for certain payments and the continuation of certain benefits in the event they are terminated without cause or they voluntarily quit for good reason after a change in control. We could be adversely affected by any interruption to our ability to conduct business at our current location. Our business operations are concentrated in one physical location in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, which is located on the Susquehanna River. Accordingly, our business operations could be substantially interrupted by flooding, snow, ice, and other weather-related incidents, or from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, or other such events. In such an event, we may not have sufficient redundant facilities to cover a loss or failure in all aspects of our business operations and to restart our business operations in a timely manner. Any damage caused by such a failure or loss may cause interruptions in our business operations that may adversely affect our service levels and business. Our ESOP and stock incentive plan will increase our costs, which will reduce our income. Our ESOP purchased 9.92% of the shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering on October16, 2009 with funds borrowed from us. The cost of acquiring the shares of common stock for the ESOP, and therefore the amount of the loan, was approximately $5.4 million. The loan will be repaid over a ten year period. We will record annual compensation expense in an amount equal to the fair value of the shares of common stock committed to be released to employees under the ESOP for each year. If shares of our common stock appreciate in value over time, compensation expense relating to the employee stock ownership plan will increase. We have adopted a stock incentive plan that we will submit to our shareholders for approval on the date of our annual meeting of shareholders. Under this plan, we may award participants restricted shares of our common stock, restricted stock units denominated in shares of our common stock or options to purchase shares of our common stock. Restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards will be made at no cost to the participants. The number of shares of common stock that may be issued pursuant to restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards (to the extent that such restricted stock unit awards are not paid in cash) or upon exercise of stock option awards under the stock incentive plan may not exceed 4% and 10%, respectively, of the total number of shares sold in our public offering or 217,761 and 544,402 shares, respectively. The costs associated with the grant of restricted stock or restricted stock units awarded under the stock incentive plan will be recognized and expensed over the service period at the fair market value of the shares on the date they are awarded. Also, we will recognize as compensation expense the award-date fair value of stock options we grant. This compensation expense will reduce our net income over the period the underlying services are performed. Statutory provisions and our articles and bylaws may discourage takeover attempts on Penn Millers that you may believe are in your best interests or that might result in a substantial profit to you. We are subject to provisions of Pennsylvania corporate and insurance law that hinder a change of control. Pennsylvania law requires the Pennsylvania Insurance Department’s prior approval of a change of control of an insurance holding company. Under Pennsylvania law, the acquisition of 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of an insurer or its holding company is presumed to be a change in control. Approval by the Pennsylvania Insurance Department may be withheld even if the transaction would be in the shareholders’ best interest if the Pennsylvania Insurance Department determines that the transaction would be detrimental to policyholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that may discourage a change in control. These provisions include: • a prohibition on a person, including a group acting in concert, from acquiring voting control of more than 10% of our outstanding stock without prior approval of the board of directors; 31 • a classified board of directors divided into three classes serving for successive terms of three years each; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • the requirement that nominations for the election of directors made by shareholders and any shareholder proposals for inclusion on the agenda at any annual meeting must be made by notice (in writing) delivered or mailed to us not less than 90 days prior to the meeting; • the prohibition of shareholders’ action without a meeting and of shareholders’ right to call a special meeting; • unless otherwise waived by the board of directors, to be elected as a director, a person must be a shareholder of Penn Millers Holding Corporation for the lesser of one year or the time that has elapsed since the completion of the conversion; • the requirement imposing a mandatory tender offering requirement on a shareholder that has a combined voting power of 25% or more of the votes that our shareholders are entitled to cast; • the requirement that certain provisions of our articles of incorporation can only be amended by an affirmative vote of shareholders entitled to cast at least 80% of all votes that shareholders are entitled to cast, unless approved by an affirmative vote of at least 80% of the members of the board of directors; and • the requirement that certain provisions of our bylaws can only be amended by an affirmative vote of shareholders entitled to cast at least 66 2/3%, or in certain cases 80%, of all votes that shareholders are entitled to cast. These provisions may serve to entrench management and may discourage a takeover attempt that you may consider to be in your best interest or in which you would receive a substantial premium over the current market price. These provisions may make it extremely difficult for any one person, entity or group of affiliated persons or entities to acquire voting control of Penn Millers, with the result that it may be extremely difficult to bring about a change in the board of directors or management. Some of these provisions also may perpetuate present management because of the additional time required to cause a change in the control of the board. Other provisions make it difficult for shareholders owning less than a majority of the voting stock to be able to elect even a single director. If Penn Millers Insurance Company is not sufficiently profitable, our ability to pay dividends will be limited. We depend primarily on dividends paid by Penn Millers Insurance Company and proceeds from the initial public offering that are not contributed to Penn Millers Insurance Company to provide funds for the payment of dividends to our shareholders. We will receive dividends only after all of Penn Millers Insurance Company’s obligations and regulatory requirements with the Pennsylvania Insurance Department have been satisfied. During any twelve-month period, the amount of dividends paid by Penn Millers Insurance Company to us, without the prior approval of the Pennsylvania Insurance Department, may not exceed the greater of 10% of the insurance company’s surplus as regards policyholders as reported on its most recent annual statement filed with the Pennsylvania Insurance Department or the insurance company’s statutory net income as reported on such statement. We presently do not intend to pay dividends to our shareholders. If Penn Millers Insurance Company is not sufficiently profitable, our ability to pay dividends to you in the future will be limited. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could adversely affect our results of operations. At the completion of our initial public offering, we became subject to the periodic reporting, proxy solicitation, insider trading and other obligations imposed under the Securities Exchange Act. In addition, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act became applicable to us. Compliance with these requirements will increase our legal and accounting costs and the cost of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and will require our management and employees to devote substantial time and effort to ensure initial and ongoing compliance with these obligations. A key component of compliance under the Exchange Act is to produce quarterly and annual financial reports within prescribed time periods after the close of our fiscal year and each fiscal quarter. Historically, we have not been required to prepare such financial reports within these time periods. Failure to satisfy these reporting requirements may result in delisting of our common stock by the Nasdaq Global Market, and inquiries from or sanctions by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Moreover, the provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that requires public companies to review and report on the adequacy of their internal controls over financial reporting will be applicable to us in 2010. Notwithstanding any additional expenditures and efforts to become compliant with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may fail to promptly remediate material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting which could cause us or our independent registered public accounting firm to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Further, a material weakness in our internal controls, or our inability to prevent fraud could result in material errors or misstatements in our annual or interim financial statements, creating the need for a restatement. 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 