ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this annual report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business before purchasing any of our common stock. All material risks are discussed in this section. We depend on state and municipal budgets, which have been cut over the past several years, and negatively affect spending by school systems and municipalities, which are our primary customers. Our primary market depends on the adequacy of funding of school systems and municipalities. As a result of conservative state and municipal budgets caused by the current economic slowdown, we believe this market has not experienced any appreciable growth over the past several years. This was particularly true in our major geographic market, which is the central Ohio area. In addition, prices have trended upward for products used in our emergency preparedness kits. This, together with competitive bidding for orders, affects our overall profitability and, should these conditions persist, will continue to have an adverse effect on our financial result in the future. We have reported limited sales and net income, and there can be no assurance that we will ever generate significant sales or net income. We were incorporated in August 2006 and have had limited operations. Our operations are subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the scaling-up of operations and the competitive environment in which we are operating. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had total revenue of $295,520 and net income of $8,131. As of December 31, 2009, we had total stockholders’ equity of $96,876, an increase of $85,535 from December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had revenue of $459,229 and a net loss of $15,845. No as surance can be given that we will have net income in future periods or ever generate significant sales. We receive support and accommodations from a significant related party. We have remained in business due, in large part, to certain support and accommodations from a significant related party to meet our current liquidity needs. Since our inception, we have received support and accommodations from our relationship with Jendco Safety Supply Inc., a company owned by the mother of Jennifer H. Jarvis, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Although we believe we purchase supplies from Jendco at prices that are no lower than those quoted by Jendco to unrelated purchasers for similar quantities of products, we believe we have received favorable payment terms (averaging slightly in excess of 30 days after receipt of invoice) for purchasers in our financial condition. We have no written agreement with Jendco. Additionally, we lease our principa l executive offices and warehouse in Columbus, Ohio from Ms. Jarvis’ mother. Although we believe we pay rent at a market rate for the space that we occupy, we have not been required to make a security deposit. By utilizing these facilities, we are also able to place purchase orders for, and obtain delivery of, emergency preparedness supplies very quickly. Although we have not received any cash advances or loans from Jendco, Jendco’s support and accommodations have helped us meet our liquidity needs. Our failure to continue to have the support and accommodations from Jendco could inhibit our ability to achieve our business plan. 5 We compete with many different companies, some of which operate in large geographical regions and sell nationally with greater resources than we have. We compete with a variety of companies that manufacture or distribute emergency preparedness kits. While many competitors are small, privately-owned companies, some operate in large geographical regions and some sell nationally, either through a system of dealers, direct sales offices, or both, such as Aramsco (a Safeguard Industrial company), with greater financial and personnel resources than we have. Competition in these markets is based largely on design capability, price, product quality, customer service and ability to meet delivery requirements. We could be exposed to product liability if the products we sell malfunction, and such damages may be substantial. The products we sell are intended to be used in emergency and disaster situations. Although we do not sell products for immediate medical treatment or for use in a “life or death” situation, in the event of a malfunction of any of our products, irrespective of the cause, we could be sued alone or along with other companies and become liable for substantial damages. We have secured product liability insurance aggregating $1,000,000. There can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from defense costs and a possible adverse judgment against us. We have a limited marketing and sales capability, which would not currently support extensive growth and could cause our results of operations to be stagnant. We have limited internal marketing and sales capability at this time. We also presently use independent dealers to market our products. These dealers handle other product lines, many of which may be of greater significance to them than our products. Currently, our own direct marketing and sales force and independent dealers would not support extensive growth. This limited marketing and sales capability could cause our results of operations to be stagnant for an indefinite period of time. We have a need for the proceeds of our initial public offering to expand our marketing efforts and for subsequent funding thereafter. We have a need for the proceeds of our initial public offering in order to finance our planned marketing efforts that would include exhibiting our products at selected trade shows and conducting print and direct-mail campaigns to targeted customers. No assurance can be given that the amount of money being allocated to such marketing efforts will be sufficient to complete these plans, or that we will derive any profits from these planned marketing efforts. Additionally, although we believe the proceeds of our initial public offering, together with cash on hand and projected cash flow from operating activities, will allow us to conduct our operations for at least the next 12 months, our continued operations thereafter will depend upon the availability of cash flow, if any, from our operations or our ability to raise a dditional funds through equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funding when it is needed, or that such funding, if available, will be obtainable on terms and conditions favorable to or affordable by us. If we cannot obtain needed funds, we may be forced to curtail our activities. If Jennifer H. Jarvis resigns or dies without our having found a replacement, our operations may be suspended or cease. If that should occur, you could lose your investment. Jennifer H. Jarvis is our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. We are dependent upon her to coordinate the marketing of our products and for her knowledge and contacts in our business. If Ms. Jarvis should resign or die there will be no one with her knowledge to operate the company. Further, we do not have an employment agreement with Ms. Jarvis and we do not have key-person life insurance for our benefit should she die. If we lose the services of Ms. Jarvis, and until we find another person to replace her, our operations may be suspended. In that event, it is possible you could lose your entire investment. 6 We consider our industry know-how proprietary but own no registered intellectual property or technology, and others may seek to copy it without compensating us. We have no registered intellectual property rights as to the industry know-how and trade secrets that we believe we have developed relating to our decontamination chambers and pumps and certain other minor products, and we cannot be sure that others will not independently develop the same or similar industry know-how, or otherwise obtain access to or duplicate our industry know-how without compensating us. To protect our rights in these areas, we require all employees, consultants and others who work for or with us to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our industry know-how, trade secrets or other information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. We do not consider the grant of pat ents, trademarks or other registered intellectual property essential to the success of our business. Having only two officers and directors (the same persons) limits our ability to establish effective independent corporate governance procedures and increases the control of our senior executive officer. We have only two directors, who are also our executive officers. Accordingly, we cannot establish board committees comprised of independent members to oversee functions like compensation or audit issues. In addition, a tie vote of board members is decided in favor of the chairman (who is Jennifer H. Jarvis, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer), which gives Ms. Jarvis significant control over all corporate issues. Unless and until we have a larger board of directors that would include one or more independent members, there will be limited oversight of Ms. Jarvis’ decisions and activities and little ability for you to challenge or reverse those activities and decisions, even if they are not in your best interests. Because there is no public trading market for our common stock, you may not be able to resell your stock and, as a result, your investment is illiquid . There is currently no public trading market for our common stock. Therefore, there is no central place, such as a stock exchange or electronic trading system, to resell your shares. If you do want to resell your shares, you will have to locate a buyer and negotiate your own sale, of which there is no assurance. As a result, your investment is illiquid. Finra sales practice requirements may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra, has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker/dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced securities (commonly referred to as penny stock) to their non-institutional customers, broker/dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, Finra believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. Finra requirements will make it more difficult for broker/dealers to recommend that their customers buy ou r common stock when traded, which may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity and liquidity of our common stock in the future. Further, many brokers charge higher fees for these speculative low-priced securities transactions. As a result, fewer broker/dealers may be willing to make a market in our common stock, reducing a stockholder’s ability to resell shares of our common stock. 7 Jennifer H. Jarvis will continue to exercise significant control over our operations. As a minority stockholder, you would have no control over certain matters requiring stockholder approval that could affect your ability to resell any shares you purchase in our initial public offering. Jennifer H. Jarvis owns 81.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Due to the controlling amount of her share ownership, she has a significant influence in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions, including the election of directors, approval of significant corporate transactions, changes in control of the company or other matters that could affect your ability to ever resell your shares. Ms. Jarvis’ interests may differ from the interests of the other stockholders and thus result in corporate decisions that are disadvantageous to other stockholders. We will incur ongoing costs and expenses for SEC reporting and compliance and we may not be able to remain in compliance, making it difficult for investors to sell their shares, if at all. Our business plan allows for the estimated $39,000 cost of the registration statement in our initial public offering to be paid from existing cash on hand. A symbol was assigned for our common stock so that our common stock may be quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board under KKTZ. To be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board, issuers must remain current in their periodic report filings with the SEC. Securities that become delinquent in their required filings are removed. In order for us to remain in compliance we will require funds to cover the cost of these filings, which could comprise a substantial portion of our available cash resources. If we are unable to remain in compliance, it may be difficult for you to resell any shares you may purchase, if at all. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock at any time. Don’t buy our shares if you expect to receive dividends. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock and do not expect paying dividends on our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Our charter contains some anti-takeover provisions that may inhibit a takeover that might benefit you. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation relating to delegation to the board of directors of rights to determine the terms of preferred stock may have the effect not only of discouraging attempts by others to buy us, but also of making it more difficult or impossible for existing stockholders to make management changes. The ability of our board of directors to determine the terms of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible business purchases and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to secure a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock. Special Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements in this report are “forward-looking statements.” These forward-looking statements involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the factors set forth above under “Risk Factors.” The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update and revise any forward-looking statements or to publicly a nnounce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements in this document to reflect any future or developments. However, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 is not available to us as a penny stock issuer and thus we may not rely on the statutory safe harbor from liability for forward-looking statements. Further, Section 27A(b)(2)(D) of the Securities Act and Section 21E(b)(2)(D) of the Securities Exchange Act expressly state that the safe harbor for forward-looking statements does not apply to statements made in connection with our initial public offering. 8 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 