ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe some of the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. The impact of United States healthcare reform legislation remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The law was upheld by a Supreme Court decision announced on June 28, 2012. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. Among other things, the new law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices beginning January 2013, which will apply to United States sales of our medical device products, including our wound drains and OsteoSelect® DBM putty. Due to multi-year pricing agreements and competitive pricing pressure in our industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass the cost of the device tax on to our customers. Other provisions of this legislation, including Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered. We cannot predict the impact of this legislation or other healthcare programs and regulations that may ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level, the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States or internationally or whether any changes will have the effect of lowering prices for our products or reducing medical procedure volumes. Pricing pressure and cost containment measures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Pricing pressure has increased in our industry due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards government becoming the primary payer of healthcare expenses, and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. Pricing pressure, reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results and financial condition. Future regulatory action remains uncertain. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and any legal or regulatory action could be time-consuming and costly. If we fail to comply with all applicable laws, standards and regulations, action by the FDA or other regulatory agencies could result in significant restrictions, including restrictions on the marketing or use of our products or the withdrawal of products from the market. Any such restrictions or withdrawals could materially affect our business and operations. In addition, governmental authorities could impose fines, seize our inventory of products, or force us to recall any product already in the market if we fail to comply with governmental regulations. Many competitive products exist and more will be developed, and we may not be able to successfully compete because we are smaller and have fewer financial resources. Our business is in a very competitive and evolving field. Rapid new developments in this field have occurred over the past few years, and are expected to continue to occur. Other companies already have competing products available or about to be available or may develop products to compete with ours. Many of these products may have short regulatory timeframes and our competitors, many with more substantial development resources, may be able to develop competing products that are equal to or better than ours. This may make our products obsolete or undesirable by comparison and reduce our revenue. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to maintain a competitive position concerning our intellectual property, and to develop new technologies and new applications for our technologies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, as well as greater production and marketing capabilities, and our ability to compete remains uncertain. The medical community and the general public may perceive synthetic materials and growth factors as safer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Members of the medical community and the general public may perceive synthetic materials and growth factors as safer than our allograft-based bone tissue products. Our products may be incapable of competing successfully with synthetic bone graft substitutes and growth factors developed and commercialized by others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Negative publicity concerning methods of human tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in the industry in which we operate may reduce demand for our allografts and impact the supply of available donor tissue. Media reports or other negative publicity concerning both improper methods of tissue recovery from donors and disease transmission from donated tissue may limit widespread acceptance of our allografts. Unfavorable reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices, both in the United States and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of allograft technologies. Potential patients may not be able to distinguish our allografts, technologies and the tissue recovery and the processing procedures from those of our competitors or others engaged in tissue recovery. In addition, families of potential donors may become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors. We are highly dependent on the availability of human donors; any disruptions could cause our customers to seek alternative providers or technologies. We are highly dependent on our ability to obtain donor cadavers as the raw material for many of our products. The availability of acceptable donors is relatively limited and we compete with many other companies for this limited availability. The availability of donors is also impacted by regulatory changes, general public opinion of the donor process and our reputation for our handling of the donor process. In addition, due to seasonal changes in the mortality rates, some scarce tissues are at times in short supply. Any disruption in the supply of this crucial raw material could have significant consequences for our revenue, operating results and continued operations. We will need to continue to innovate and develop new products to be desirable to our customers. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new introductions, changes in customers’ demands and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, we will need to continue to innovate and develop additional products. These efforts can be costly, subject to long development and regulatory delays and may not result in products approved for sale. These costs may hurt operating results and may require additional capital. If additional capital is not available, we may be forced to curtail development activities. In addition, any failure on our behalf to react to changing market conditions could create an opportunity for other market participants to capture a critical share of the market within a short period of time. Our success will depend on our ability to engage and retain qualified technical personnel who are difficult to attract. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical personnel to assist in research and development, testing, product implementation, low-scale production and technical support. Competition for qualified technical personnel is intense, and we may encounter difficulty in engaging and retaining qualified personnel needed to implement our growth plan. The demand for such personnel is high and the supply of qualified technical personnel is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our technical work force and increases in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase and our growth potential could be impaired. Loss of key members of our management who we need to succeed could adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on the services of Guy Cook, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other key members of our management team and the loss of his or any of their services could have an adverse effect on our future operations. We do not currently maintain a key-man life insurance policy insuring the life of Mr. Cook or any other member of our management team. We are highly dependent on the continued availability of our facilities and would be harmed if they were unavailable for any prolonged period of time. Any failure in the physical infrastructure of our facilities or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenues and harm our business reputation and financial results. We are highly reliant on our Belgrade, Montana facilities. Any natural or man-made event that impacts our ability to utilize these facilities could have a significant impact on our operating results, reputation and ability to continue operations. The regulatory process for approval of facilities is time-consuming and our ability to rebuild facilities would take a considerable amount of time and expense and cause a significant disruption in service to our customers. Further, the FDA or some other regulatory agency could identify deficiencies in future inspections of our facilities or our supplies that could disrupt our business, reducing profitability. We carry business interruption insurance of up to $1 million per location to help in these instances, but it may not cover all costs or our standing in the market. We will be required to invest in facilities and equipment on a continuing basis, which will put pressure on us to finance these investments. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in facilities and state-of-the-art equipment in order to increase, expand or update our capabilities and facilities. Changes in technology or sales growth beyond currently established production capabilities, which we anticipate, will require further investment. We currently anticipate that we will need to spend between $4 and $5 million over the next five years in order to increase, expand or update our existing facilities to meet our expected growth over that period. However, there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient funds from operations to maintain our existing facilities and equipment or to finance any required capital investments or that other sources of funding will be available. Additionally, there can be no guarantee that any future expansion will not negatively affect earnings. 12 Future revenue will depend on our ability to increase sales. We currently sell our products through direct sales by our employees and indirectly through distributor relationships. We incurred increased sales and marketing expenses in building and expanding our direct sales force, and there can be no assurance that we will generate increased sales as a result of this effort. There may be fluctuations in our operating results, which will impact our stock price. Significant annual and quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations may be caused by, among other factors, our volume of revenues, the timing of new product or service announcements, releases by us and our competitors in the marketplace of new products or services, and general economic conditions. There can be no assurance that the level of revenues and profits, if any, achieved by us in any particular fiscal period will not be significantly lower than in other comparable fiscal periods. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. As a result, if future revenues are below expectations, net income or loss may be disproportionately affected by a reduction in revenues, as any corresponding reduction in expenses may not be proportionate to the reduction in revenues. We are dependent on the ability of our licensees and development partners for obtaining regulatory approvals and market acceptance of their products, for which we may have no control. Our success will depend on our ability, or that of our licensees, to obtain timely regulatory approval for products employing our technology. Moreover, our success will also depend on whether, and how quickly, our licensees gain market acceptance of products incorporating our technology, compared to competitors using competing technologies. Our revenues will depend upon prompt and adequate reimbursement from public and private insurers and national health systems. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. The ability of hospitals to pay fees for allograft bone tissue products depends in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such materials and related treatments will continue to be available from governmental health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations. We may have difficulty gaining market acceptance for our products if government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement to hospitals. Major third-party payors of hospital services and hospital outpatient services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, annually revise their payment methodologies, which can result in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital charges for certain medical procedures or the elimination of reimbursement. Further, Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurer cutbacks could create downward price pressure on our products. Our operating results will be harmed if we are unable to effectively manage and sustain our future growth. We might not be able to manage our future growth efficiently or profitably. Our business is unproven on a large scale and actual revenue and operating margins, or revenue and margin growth, may be less than expected. If we are unable to scale our production capabilities efficiently, we may fail to achieve expected operating margins, which would have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Growth may also stress our ability to adequately manage our operations, quality of products, safety and regulatory compliance. If growth significantly decreases our reserves, we may be required to obtain additional financing, which may increase our indebtedness or result in dilution to our stockholders. Further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any additional financing. Future business combinations or acquisitions may be difficult to integrate and cause our attention to be diverted. We may pursue various business combinations with other companies or strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, product lines or technologies. There can be no assurance that such acquisitions will be available at all, or on terms acceptable to us. These transactions may require additional financing which may increase our indebtedness or outstanding shares, resulting in dilution to stockholders. The inability to obtain such future financing may inhibit our growth and operating results. Integration of acquisitions or additional products can be time consuming, difficult and expensive and may significantly impact operating results. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management’s time and resources from our core business. We may sell some or all of our product lines to other companies or may agree to combine with another company. Selling some of our product lines may inhibit our ability to generate positive operating results going forward. We may be subject to future product liability litigation that could be expensive and our insurance coverage may not be adequate in a catastrophic situation. Although we are not currently subject to any product liability proceedings, and we have no reserves for product liability disbursements, we may incur material liabilities relating to product liability claims in the future, including product liability claims arising out of the usage of our products. We currently carry product liability insurance, however, our insurance coverage and any reserves we may maintain in the future for product related liabilities may not be adequate and our business could suffer material adverse consequences. 13 We may implement a product recall or voluntary market withdrawal due to product defects or product enhancements and modifications, which would significantly increase our costs. The manufacturing and marketing of our biologic products, medical devices and coating technologies involves an inherent risk that our products may prove to be defective. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. A recall or withdrawal of one of our products, or a similar product manufactured by another manufacturer, could impair sales of the products we market as a result of confusion concerning the scope of the recall or withdrawal, or as a result of the damage to our reputation for quality and safety. U.S. governmental regulation could restrict the use of our products or our procurement of tissue. In the United States, the procurement and transplantation of allograft bone tissue is subject to federal law pursuant to the National Organ Transplant Act, or NOTA, a criminal statute which prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs used in human transplantation, including bone and related tissue, for “valuable consideration.” NOTA permits reasonable payments associated with the removal, transportation, processing, preservation, quality control, implantation and storage of human bone tissue. We provide services in all of these areas in the United States, with the exception of removal and implantation, and receive payments for all such services. We make payments to certain of our clients and tissue banks for their services related to recovering allograft bone tissue on our behalf. If NOTA is interpreted or enforced in a manner which prevents us from receiving payment for services we render or which prevents us from paying tissue banks or certain of our clients for the services they render for us, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We are engaged through our marketing employees, independent sales agents and sales representatives in ongoing efforts designed to educate the medical community as to the benefits of our products, and we intend to continue our educational activities. Although we believe that NOTA permits payments in connection with these educational efforts as reasonable payments associated with the processing, transportation and implantation of our products, payments in connection with such education efforts are not exempt from NOTA’s restrictions and our inability to make such payments in connection with our education efforts may prevent us from paying our sales representatives for their education efforts and could adversely affect our business and prospects. No federal agency or court has determined whether NOTA is, or will be, applicable to every allograft bone tissue-based material which our processing technologies may generate. Assuming that NOTA applies to our processing of allograft bone tissue, we believe that we comply with NOTA, but there can be no assurance that more restrictive interpretations of, or amendments to, NOTA will not be adopted in the future which would call into question one or more aspects of our method of operations. Our business is subject to continuing regulatory compliance by the FDA and other authorities which is costly and could result in delays in the commercialization of our products. As a manufacturer and marketer of medical devices, we are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and the Center for Medicare Services of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other federal governmental agencies and, in some jurisdictions, by state and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations govern the introduction of new medical devices, the observance of certain standards with respect to the design, manufacture, testing, labeling, promotion and sales of the devices, the maintenance of certain records, the ability to track devices, the reporting of potential product defects, the import and export of devices and other matters. We are facing an increasing amount of scrutiny and compliance costs as more states are implementing regulations governing medical devices, pharmaceuticals and/or biologics which affect many of our products. Medical devices that incorporate coatings technology are subject to FDA regulation and compliance. Generally, any medical device manufacturer that wishes to incorporate our coatings technology into its products will be responsible for obtaining FDA approval for the medical devices it intends to market though we will assist in the 510(k) filing submitted by licensees. The FDA process can take several months to several years in the United States. The time required to obtain approval for international sales may be longer or shorter, depending on the laws of the particular country. There can be no assurance that our licensees will be able to obtain FDA or international approval on a timely basis. The FDA may also require the more extensive Premarket Approval Application, or PMA, process for certain products, which results, in effect, in a private license being granted to the applicant for marketing a particular medical device and requires an additional level of FDA scientific review to ensure the safety and effectiveness of such devices. Approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed, warnings that may be required to accompany the product or additional restrictions placed on the sale and/or use of the product. Changes in regulations or adoption of new regulations could also cause delays in obtaining product approval. In addition, regulatory approval is subject to continuing compliance with regulatory standards, and product approval is subject to withdrawal if a licensee fails to comply with standards, or if an unforeseen event should occur concerning a product. Significant delays in obtaining product approval could have a significantly detrimental impact on our business. Human tissues intended for transplantation have been regulated by the FDA since 1993. In May 2005, three new comprehensive regulations went into effect that address manufacturing activities associated with human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. The first requires that companies that produce and distribute HCT/Ps register with the FDA. The second provides criteria that must be met for donors to be eligible to donate tissues and is referred to as the “Donor Eligibility” rule. The third rule governs the processing and distribution of the tissues and is often referred to as the “Current Good Tissue Practices” rule. The “Current Good Tissue Practices” rule covers all stages of allograft processing, from procurement of tissue to distribution of final allografts. Together they are designed to ensure that sound, high quality practices are followed to reduce the risk of tissue contamination and of communicable disease transmission to recipients. These regulations increased regulatory scrutiny within the industry in which we operate and have lead to increased enforcement action which affects the conduct of our business. In addition, these regulations can increase the cost of tissue recovery activities. 14 Other regulatory entities include state agencies with statutes covering tissue banking. Regulations issued by Florida, New York, California and Maryland will be particularly relevant to our business. Most states do not currently have tissue banking regulations. However, recent incidents of allograft related infections in the industry may stimulate the development of regulation in other states. It is possible that others may make allegations against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks about non-compliance with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes or regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action, or could cause negative publicity for our business and the industry in which we operate. Our products may be subject to regulation in the EU as well should we enter that market. In the European Union, or EU, regulations, if applicable, differ from one EU member state to the next. Because of the absence of a harmonized regulatory framework and the proposed regulation for advanced therapy medicinal products in the EU, as well as for other countries, the approval process for human derived cell or tissue based medical products may be extensive, lengthy, expensive and unpredictable. Some of our products may be subject to European Union member states’ regulations that govern the donation, procurement, testing, coding, traceability, processing, preservation, storage, and distribution of human tissues and cells and cellular or tissue-based products. Some EU member states have their own tissue banking regulations. Clinical trials can be long, expensive and ultimately uncertain which could jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval and market our products. Clinical trials are required to develop products, gain market acceptance and obtain 510(k) certifications from the FDA. These trials often take several years to execute and are subject to factors within and outside of our control. The outcome of any trial is uncertain and may have a significant impact on the success of our current and future products and future profits. The commencement or completion of any clinical trial may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, a regulatory body placing clinical trials on hold, patients not enrolling in clinical trials at the rate we expect, patients experiencing adverse side effects, third party contractors failing to perform in accordance with our anticipated schedule or consistent with good clinical practices, inclusive or negative interim trial results or our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials to produce our products. Our development costs may increase if we have material delays in clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If this occurs, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products may be harmed. Product pricing (and, therefore, profitability) is subject to regulatory control which could impact our revenue and financial performance. The pricing and profitability of our products may become subject to control by the government and other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of governmental and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare through various means may adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products. In most foreign markets, the pricing and/or profitability of certain diagnostics and prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to governmental control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control though it is unclear which proposals will ultimately become law, if any. Changes in prices, including any mandated pricing, could impact our revenue and financial performance. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could result in costly and time consuming litigation and our loss of any potential competitive advantage. Our success will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to successfully obtain and maintain patents, prevent misappropriation or infringement of intellectual property, maintain trade secret protection, and conduct operations without violating or infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that our patented and patent-pending technologies will provide us with a competitive advantage, that we will be able to develop or acquire additional technology that is patentable, or that third parties will not develop and offer technologies which are similar to ours. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that confidentiality agreements, trade secrecy agreements or similar agreements intended to protect unpatented technology will provide the intended protection. Intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time-consuming, and it is often difficult, if not impossible, to predict the outcome of such litigation. A failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results and our ability to successfully compete in this industry. We may not be able to obtain or protect our proprietary rights relating to our products without resorting to costly and time consuming litigation. We may not be able to obtain, maintain and protect certain proprietary rights necessary for the development and commercialization of our products or product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on our products and successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our ability to commercialize our products will also depend in part on the patent positions of third parties, including those of our competitors. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the scope and breadth of patent claims that may be afforded to other companies’ patents. We could incur substantial costs in litigation if we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we initiate suits to protect our patent rights. 15 In addition to the risks involved with patent protection, we also face the risk that our competitors will infringe on our trademarks. Any infringement could lead to a likelihood of confusion and could result in lost sales. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any claims we make to protect our intellectual property. Future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain which may impact our ability to successfully compete in our industry. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We cannot ensure that: ¨we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patent applications; ¨we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; ¨others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; ¨any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; ¨any of our issued patents or those of our licensors will be valid and enforceable; ¨any patents issued to us or our collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; ¨we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; ¨the patents of others will not have a material adverse effect on our business rights; or ¨the measures we rely on to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate to prevent third parties from using our technology, all of which could harm our ability to compete in the market. Our success depends on our ability to avoid infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties which could expose us to litigation or commercially unfavorable licensing arrangements. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability and the ability of our collaborators to avoid infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may accuse us or our collaborators of employing their proprietary technology in our products, or in the materials or processes used to research or develop our products, without authorization. Any legal action against our collaborators or us claiming damages and/or seeking to stop our commercial activities relating to the affected products, materials and processes could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require our collaborators or us to obtain a license to continue to utilize the affected materials or processes or to manufacture or market the affected products. We cannot predict whether we or our collaborators would prevail in any of these actions or whether any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain such a license, we or our collaborators may be unable to continue to utilize the affected materials or processes or manufacture or market the affected products or we may be obligated by a court to pay substantial royalties and/or other damages to the patent holder. Even if we are able to obtain such a license, the terms of such a license could substantially reduce the commercial value of the affected product or products and impair our prospects for profitability. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether or to what extent the commercial value of the affected product or products or our prospects for profitability may be harmed as a result of any of the liabilities discussed above. Furthermore, infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business. We may be unable to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights to adequately protect our products and related intellectual property. Others may claim an ownership interest in our intellectual property which could expose us to litigation and have a significant adverse effect on our prospects. A third-party may claim an ownership interest in our intellectual property. While we believe we own 100% of the right, title and interest in the patents for which we have applied and our other intellectual property, including that which we license from third parties, we cannot guarantee that a third-party will not, at some time, assert a claim or an interest in any of such patents or intellectual property. A successful challenge or claim by a third party to our patents or intellectual property could have a significant adverse effect on our prospects. 16 The result of litigation may result in financial loss and/or impact our ability to sell our products going forward. We intend to vigorously defend any future intellectual property litigation that may arise but there can be no assurance that we will prevail in these matters. An unfavorable judgment may result in a financial burden on us. An unfavorable judgment may also result in restrictions on our ability to sell certain products and therefore may impact future operating results. We have found material weaknesses in our system of internal controls over financial reporting that have not been fully remediated as of December 31, 2012, which could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report certain financial data. In connection with the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, management discovered the following deficiencies: (i) insufficient number of personnel with the appropriate level of experience and technical expertise to appropriately resolve account reconciliations, while completing the financial statement close process; and (ii) the documentation surrounding equity transactions for employees and consultants needs to be strengthened to comply with procedures outlined by the Company to ensure that all equity transactions are properly recorded in the appropriate periods. In light of these material weaknesses, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2012, which constituted a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting because they resulted in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement could occur in our annual or interim financial statements which could not be prevented or detected. Although we are working to remediate these deficiencies as outlined in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there can be no assurance that our remediation efforts will resolve all of our internal control deficiencies or that we will not discover additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies as we evaluate and test such controls in the future. Such material weaknesses or deficiencies could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report our financial information, which could cause current and potential stockholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Because we became public through a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There are coverage risks associated with our becoming public through a reverse merger, including, among other things, security analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. We cannot assure you that brokerage firms will want to conduct any public offerings on our behalf in the future. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and may decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile, as is the stock market in general. Some of the factors that may materially affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control, such as changes in financial estimates by industry and securities analysts, conditions or trends in the industry in which we operate or sales of our common stock. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may not continue to satisfy the continued listing requirements of the NYSE MKT exchange. We are currently listed on the NYSE MKT exchange, which imposes both objective and subjective requirements for continued listing. Continued listing criteria include the financial condition of the company, market capitalization, total assets, annual revenue, and low selling price. Our common stock is currently trading at less than $1.00 per share, we are operating at a loss, and our market capitalization, total assets and annual revenue are all currently less than $50 million, so our continued listing is at risk. If the NYSE MKT determines that we fail to satisfy the requirements for continued listing, we could be de-listed from the exchange, which could result in reduced liquidity for our shareholders. There can be no assurance that we will satisfy the continued listing requirements of the NYSE MKT or that we will continue to be listed on any exchange. Our stockholders may experience significant dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire complementary businesses. If our future operations or acquisitions are financed through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock. We also have established an equity incentive plan for our management and employees. We expect to grant options to purchase shares of our common stock to our directors, employees and consultants and we will grant additional options in the future. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of these options may result in dilution to our stockholders. Our current management can exert significant influence over us and make decisions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own as a group approximately 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to assert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our outstanding shares of common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of the owners of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and, accordingly, could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. 17 We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future; you should not buy our stock if you expect dividends. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We could issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests and impairing their voting rights, and provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation provides for the authorization to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, our common stockholders. The issuance of a series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. For example, it would be possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of our company. In addition, we have a staggered board of directors and advanced notice is required prior to stockholder proposals, which might further delay a change of control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 