ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider and such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Because of these and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance.The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and our inability to compete successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, technological and regulatory changes. Our mortgage loan origination business faces competition in mortgage loan offerings, rates, fees and levels of customer service. Competition to originate mortgage loans comes primarily from large commercial banks and savings institutions, but we also compete with a growing number of national and regional mortgage companies. Financial institutions generally have significantly greater resources and access to capital than we do, which gives them the benefit of a lower cost of funds and the ability to originate more mortgage loans. Our servicing business faces competition in areas such as fees and service. Competition to service mortgage loans comes from large commercial banks, large savings institutions and large independent servicers. Additionally, our servicing competitors may decide to modify their servicing model to compete more directly with our servicing model, or our servicing model may generate lower margins as a result of competition or as overall economic conditions improve. In addition, technological advances and heightened e-commerce activities have increased consumers’ accessibility to products and services. This has intensified competition among banks and non-banks in offering mortgage loans and servicing them. We may be unable to compete successfully in our origination and servicing businesses, and this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience financial difficulties as some originators and mortgage servicers have experienced, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since 2006, a number of originators and servicers of residential mortgage loans experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, ceased operations. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for mortgage loans as well as from claims for repurchases of mortgage loans previously sold under provisions requiring repurchase in the event of early payment defaults or breaches of representations and warranties regarding loan quality, compliance and certain 13other loan characteristics. Overall, origination volumes are down significantly in the current economic environment. Higher delinquencies and defaults may contribute to these difficulties by reducing the value of mortgage loans and requiring originators to sell their portfolios at greater discounts to par. In addition, servicing an increasingly delinquent mortgage loan portfolio increases servicing costs without a corresponding increase in servicing compensation. The value of many residual interests retained by sellers of mortgage loans in the securitization market has also been declining. Any of the foregoing adverse developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in the residential mortgage market would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since 2007, adverse economic conditions, including high unemployment, stagnant or declining incomes and higher taxes, have impacted the residential mortgage market, resulting in unprecedented delinquency, default and foreclosure rates, all of which have led to increased losses on all types of residential mortgage loans due to sharp declines in residential real estate values. Falling home prices have resulted in higher LTVs, lower recoveries in foreclosure and an increase in losses above those that would have been realized had property values remained the same or continued to increase. As LTVs increase, borrowers sometimes have insufficient equity in their homes, which prohibits them from refinancing their existing loans. This may also provide borrowers an incentive to default on their mortgage loans even if they have the ability to make principal and interest payments, which we refer to as strategic defaults. Increased mortgage defaults negatively impact our servicing business because they increase the costs to service the underlying loans and may ultimately reduce the number of mortgages we service. Adverse economic conditions also adversely impact our originations business. Declining home prices and increasing LTVs may preclude many potential borrowers, including borrowers whose existing loans we service, from refinancing their existing loans. Adverse changes in the residential mortgage market may reduce the number of mortgages we service or new mortgages we originate, reduce the profitability of mortgages currently serviced by us, adversely affect our ability to sell mortgage loans originated by us or increase delinquency rates. Any of the foregoing adverse developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain sufficient capital to meet the financing requirements of our business. Our financing strategy consists primarily of using repurchase facilities, participation agreements and warehouse lines of credit with major financial institutions and regional and community banks. As we continue to grow, we will likely need to borrow additional money. Our ability to renew or replace our existing facilities or warehouse lines of credit as they expire and borrow the additional funds we will need to accomplish our growth strategy is affected by a variety of factors including: •the level of liquidity in the mortgage related credit markets; •prevailing interest rates; •the strength of the lenders that provide us financing; •limitations on borrowings on repurchase facilities, participation agreements and warehouse lines of credit imposed by the amount of eligible collateral pledged; •limitations imposed on us under financing agreements that contain restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions that may limit our ability to raise or borrow additional funds; and •accounting changes that may impact calculations of covenants in our financing agreements. We cannot assure you we will be able to renew, replace or refinance our existing financing arrangements or enter into additional financing arrangements on terms that are commercially reasonable or at all.In the ordinary course of our business, we periodically borrow money or sell newly-originated loans to fund our mortgage loan origination and servicing operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to fund current operations and make advances required under our mortgage loan servicing agreements depends on our ability to secure these types of financings on acceptable terms and to renew or replace existing financings as they expire. Such financings may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. An event of default, a negative ratings action by a rating agency, an adverse action by a regulatory authority or a general deterioration in the economy that constricts the availability of credit-similar to the market conditions that we have experienced during the last five years-may increase our cost of funds and make it difficult for us to renew existing facilities or obtain new financing facilities. We intend to seek opportunities to acquire mortgage loan servicing portfolios and/or businesses that engage in mortgage loan servicing and/or mortgage loan originations. Our liquidity and capital resources may be diminished by any such transactions. Additionally, we believe that a significant acquisition may require us to raise additional capital to facilitate such a transaction, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. 14In June 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision of the Bank of International Settlements announced the final framework for strengthening capital requirements, known as Basel III, which, if implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies, will increase the cost of funding on financial institutions that we rely on for financing. Such Basel III requirements on financial institutions could reduce our sources of funding and increase the costs of originating and servicing mortgage loans. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms for any of the foregoing reasons, this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to grow our loan origination volume, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our mortgage loan origination business consists of providing purchase money loans to homebuyers and refinancing existing loans. The origination of purchase money mortgage loans is greatly influenced by traditional business clients in the home buying process such as realtors and builders. As a result, our ability to secure relationships with such traditional business clients will influence our ability to grow our purchase money mortgage loan volume and, thus, our loan origination business. Our loan origination business operates largely through third party mortgage brokers who do business with us on a best efforts basis, i.e., they are not obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with these brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to expand our broker networks. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker networks. If we are unable to continue to grow our loan origination business, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, we were licensed in 45 states and Washington, D.C. and had a license pending in three states. We intend to become licensed in all of the contiguous United States during 2014. As we become licensed in these additional states, we believe this geographic expansion will be a major driver of our growth. However, there are no assurances that we will obtain licenses in all 48 contiguous United States or that our licensing efforts will continue on the pace that we intend. If we are unable to obtain the licenses we plan to obtain, we will not be able to grow our business in accordance with our current plans, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The geographic concentration of our servicing portfolio may result in a higher rate of delinquencies and/or defaults, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The following is a summary of the loans we serviced as of December 31, 2013 by geographic concentration as measured by the total unpaid principal balance as of December 31, 2013: (dollars in millions) $ UPB % of Total $UPBTexas $1,606 13%Indiana 1,070 9%Ohio 941 8%New Jersey 811 7%Illinois 753 6%Missouri 722 6%Georgia 711 6%Pennsylvania 647 6%All other states 4,663 39%Total $11,924 100%To the extent the states where we have a higher concentration of loans experience weaker economic conditions, greater rates of decline in single-family residential real estate values or reduced demand within the residential mortgage sector relative to the United States generally, the concentration of loans we service in those regions may increase the effect of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. Additionally, if states in which we have greater concentrations of mortgage loans were to change their licensing or other regulatory requirements to make our business cost-prohibitive, we may be required to stop doing business in those states or may be subject to higher costs of doing business in those states, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2013, there were three states in which we were not licensed but had licenses pending. As our origination volume increases in the states where we have only recently become licensed and have not yet expanded our operations and in the additional states where we become licensed, we expect our geographic concentration to change and our origination and servicing of loans could be impacted by geographic concentrations in different states. To the extent those states experience weaker economic conditions or greater rates of decline in single-family residential real estate values, the concentration of loans we originate and service in those regions may increase the effect of the risks to our business. 15We use financial models and estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets, such as MSRs, commitments to originate loans, mortgage loans held for sale and related hedging instruments. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may be required to record negative fair value adjustments, which would adversely affect our earnings. We use internal financial models that utilize, wherever possible, market participant data to value certain of our assets, including our MSRs when they are initially acquired and newly originated loans held for sale for purposes of financial reporting. These models are complex and use asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest and discount rates. In addition, the modeling requirements of MSRs are complex because of the high number of variables that drive cash flows associated with MSRs. Even if the general accuracy of our valuation models is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of the models. In determining the value for MSRs, we make certain assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: •the rates of prepayment and repayment; •projected rates of delinquencies, defaults and liquidations; •future interest rates; •our cost to service the loans; •ancillary fee income; and •amounts of future servicing advances. Although we have processes and procedures in place to review our internal valuation models and their testing and calibration, such assumptions are complex as we must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Different assumptions could result in significant changes in financial performance, including valuation, which in turn could affect earnings or result in significant changes in the dollar amount of assets reported on the balance sheet. Additionally, if loan loss levels are higher than anticipated due to an increase in delinquencies, prepayment speeds are higher than we predict, or financial market illiquidity continues beyond our estimate, the value of certain of our assets may decrease and we may be required to record negative fair value adjustments, which could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, there can be no assurance that, even if our models are correct, these assets could be sold for our carrying value should we choose or be forced to sell them in the open market. Federal, state and local laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the highly regulated nature of the residential mortgage industry, we are required to comply with a wide array of federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate, among other things, the manner in which we conduct our origination and servicing businesses, the fees we may charge, and the services we provide. These regulations directly impact our business and require constant compliance, monitoring and internal and external audits. A material failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could result in the loss or suspension of our licenses to conduct our businesses or subject us to lawsuits or governmental actions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there continue to be changes in legislation and licensing requirements that are intended to improve the consumer mortgage loan experience, which require technological changes and additional implementation costs for mortgage loan originators and servicers. We expect legislative and licensing changes will continue in the foreseeable future, which will likely increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, there continue to be changes in state law that are adverse to mortgage servicers that increase costs and operational complexity of our business and impose significant penalties for violation. Any of these changes in the law could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local governments have recently proposed or enacted numerous laws, regulations and rules related to mortgage loans generally and foreclosure actions in particular. These laws, regulations and rules may result in significant delays in the foreclosure process, reduced payments by borrowers, modification of the original terms of mortgage loans, permanent forgiveness of debt and increased servicing advances. In some cases, local governments have ordered moratoriums on foreclosure activity, which prevent a servicer or trustee, as applicable, from exercising any remedies they might have in respect of liquidating a severely delinquent mortgage loan. Several courts also have taken unprecedented steps to slow the foreclosure process or prevent foreclosure altogether. Certain proposed federal and state legislation would permit borrowers in bankruptcy to restructure mortgage loans secured by primary residences. Bankruptcy courts could, if this legislation is enacted, reduce the principal balance of a mortgage loan that is secured by a lien on mortgaged property, reduce the mortgage interest rate, extend the term to maturity or otherwise modify the terms of a bankrupt borrower’s mortgage loan. 16We originate and sell FHA and VA loans. The origination of FHA and VA loans represented approximately 36%, 29% and 37% of the dollar value of loans originated during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The housing finance reform contemplated by the Obama administration may impact the lending qualification and limits of these programs, which may adversely impact our volume of FHA and VA loan originations in the future and may increase the price of our mortgage insurance premiums or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We may be subject to liability for potential violations of predatory lending laws, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. Various U.S. federal, state and local laws have been enacted that are designed to discourage predatory lending practices. The U.S. federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 ("HOEPA") prohibits inclusion of certain provisions in residential mortgage loans that have mortgage rates or origination costs in excess of prescribed levels and requires that borrowers be given certain disclosures prior to origination. Some states have enacted, or may enact, similar laws or regulations, which in some cases impose restrictions and requirements greater than those in HOEPA. In addition, under the anti-predatory lending laws of some states, the origination of certain residential mortgage loans, including loans that are not classified as “high-cost” loans under applicable law, must satisfy a net tangible benefits test with respect to the related borrower. This test may be highly subjective and open to interpretation. As a result, a court may determine that a residential mortgage loan, for example, does not meet the test even if the related originator reasonably believed that the test was satisfied. If any of our production loans are found to have been originated in violation of predatory or abusive lending laws, we could incur losses, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. We are highly dependent upon programs administered by GSEs, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and by Ginnie Mae, to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors. Any changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In February 2011, the Obama Administration delivered a report to Congress regarding a proposal to reform the housing finance markets in the United States. The report, among other things, outlined various potential proposals to wind down the GSEs and reduce or eliminate over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of loans that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. There are also proposals to reduce the maximum size of loans insured by FHA (which comprise the majority of loans in the Ginnie Mae program) or otherwise reform FHA lending. In addition, various bills have been proposed by members of Congress to eliminate the GSEs and replace them with private but federally-subsidized guaranties for qualifying loans, to combine them into a single entity that will provide guaranties to a smaller number of qualified loans, or to continue their operations but in a more limited form and with greater capital requirements. Thus, the long-term future of the GSEs is still unclear.Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors depends, to a significant degree, on programs administered by the GSEs, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and by Ginnie Mae. These GSEs and Ginnie Mae play a critical role in the residential mortgage industry, and we have significant business relationships with many of them. Most of the conforming loans we originate qualify under existing standards for inclusion in mortgage securities guaranteed by GSEs and Ginnie Mae. We also derive other material financial benefits from these relationships, including the assumption of credit risk by these GSEs and Ginnie Mae on loans included in such mortgage securities in exchange for our payment of guarantee fees and the ability to avoid certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these GSEs and Ginnie Mae or any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary mortgage market or the underwriting criteria of these GSEs or Ginnie Mae could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. federal government, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Due to increased market concerns about the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, in July 2008, the U.S. government passed the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. In September 2008, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”) placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in their respective debt and MBS. As the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA controls and directs the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may (i) take over the assets and operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with all the powers of the shareholders, the directors and the officers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and conduct 17all business of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (ii) collect all obligations and money due to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (iii) perform all functions of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (iv) preserve and conserve the assets and property of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and (v) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. In addition, a number of GSE reform proposals have been advanced by the FHFA and other governmental authorities and industry groups, some of which advocate material changes to the business of the GSEs or the elimination of the GSEs altogether. The future of the GSEs, therefore, is uncertain. Certain changes to the mortgage financing programs of the GSEs could have a material adverse effect on the operations of the residential mortgage markets and our business, financial position and results of operations. Although the U.S. Treasury has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, these actions may not be adequate for their needs. If these actions are inadequate, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitute Agency and government conforming MBS and could have broad adverse market implications. Such market implications could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to sell or securitize our non-agency mortgage loans, our business will be adversely affected and even if we are successful in securitizing our non-agency mortgage loans, we will bear a portion of the risk of loss associated with these loans.We originate and acquire mortgage loans that are not eligible for sale to or securitization with the GSEs or Ginnie Mae. Because we do not want to hold these non-agency mortgage loans to maturity, we either must sell them to third parties or securitize them in non-agency securitizations. The non-agency securitization market has been stalled in the last few years because of a number of factors, including regulatory uncertainty. If we originate non-agency mortgage loans and cannot sell or securitize them, we may be forced to hold them in portfolio with little access to financing on favorable terms. This would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, if we sponsor the securitization of non-agency mortgage loans, we would be required to retain an interest in the securitized loans and would thus bear some of the risk of loss associated with the loans, such as default risk.Unlike banks and similar financial institutions with which we compete, we are subject to state licensing and operational requirements that result in substantial compliance costs. Because we are not a depository institution, we do not benefit from an exemption to state mortgage banking, loan servicing or debt collection licensing and regulatory requirements that is generally given to a depository institution under state law. We must comply with state licensing requirements and varying compliance requirements in every state in which we do business. Future regulatory changes may increase our costs through stricter licensing laws, disclosure laws or increased fees, or may impose conditions to licensing that we are unable to meet. In addition, we are subject to periodic examinations by state regulators, which can result in refunds to borrowers of certain fees earned by us, and we may be required to pay substantial penalties imposed by state regulators due to compliance errors. In particular, Benjamin Lawsky, superintendent of New York's Department of Financial Services, recently indicated that the agency had "significant concerns" that the growth of non-bank mortgage servicers may "create capacity issues that put homeowners at risk.” Future state legislation and changes in existing regulation may significantly increase our compliance costs or reduce the amount of ancillary fees, including late fees, that we may charge to borrowers. This could make our business cost-prohibitive in the affected state or states and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business would be adversely affected if we lose our licenses or if we are unable to obtain licenses in new markets. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and regulations. In most states in which we operate, a regulatory agency regulates and enforces laws relating to mortgage loan servicing companies and mortgage loan origination companies such as us. These rules and regulations generally provide for licensing as a mortgage servicing company, mortgage origination company or third party debt default specialist, requirements as to the form and content of contracts and other documentation, licensing of our employees and employee hiring background checks, licensing of independent contractors with which we contract, restrictions on collection practices, disclosure and record-keeping requirements and enforcement of borrowers’ rights. In certain states, we are subject to periodic examination by state regulatory authorities. Some states in which we operate require special licensing or provide extensive regulation of our business. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws. But we may not be able to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and the failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could result in a default under our servicing 18agreements and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The states that currently do not provide extensive regulation of our business may later choose to do so, and if such states so act, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all requisite licenses and permits. The failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could result in a default under our servicing agreements and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, the adoption of additional, or the revision of existing, rules and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Challenges to the MERS® System could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. MERSCORP, Inc. is a privately held company that maintains an electronic registry, referred to as the MERS System, that tracks servicing rights and ownership of loans in the United States. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. ("MERS"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MERSCORP, Inc., can serve as a nominee for the owner of a mortgage loan and in that role initiate foreclosures or become the mortgagee of record for the loan in local land records. We may choose to use MERS as a nominee. The MERS System is widely used by participants in the mortgage finance industry. Several legal challenges in the courts and by governmental authorities have been made disputing MERS’s legal standing to initiate foreclosures or act as nominee for lenders in mortgages and deeds of trust recorded in local land records. These challenges have focused public attention on MERS and on how loans are recorded in local land records. Although most legal decisions have accepted MERS as mortgagee, these challenges could result in delays and additional costs in commencing, prosecuting and completing foreclosure proceedings, conducting foreclosure sales of mortgaged properties and submitting proofs of claim in borrower bankruptcy cases. We may not be able to maintain or grow our business if we cannot originate and/or acquire MSRs. Our servicing portfolio is subject to “run off,” meaning that mortgage loans we service may be prepaid prior to maturity, refinanced with a mortgage not serviced by us or liquidated through foreclosure, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or other liquidation process or repaid through standard amortization of principal. As a result, our ability to maintain and grow the size of our servicing portfolio depends on our ability to originate additional mortgages, to recapture the servicing rights on loans that are refinanced, and to acquire the right to service additional residential mortgage loans. We may not be able to originate a sufficient volume of mortgage loans, recapture a sufficient volume of refinanced loans or acquire MSRs on additional pools of mortgage loans with sufficient volume or on terms that are favorable to us or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recapture loans from borrowers who refinance. One of the focuses of our origination efforts is “recapture,” which involves actively working with existing borrowers to refinance their mortgage loans with us instead of another originator of mortgage loans. Borrowers who refinance have no obligation to refinance their loans with us and may choose to refinance with a different originator. If borrowers refinance with a different originator, this decreases the profitability of our primary servicing portfolio because the original loan will be repaid, and we will not have an opportunity to earn further servicing fees after the original loan is repaid. Moreover, recapture allows us to generate additional loan servicing more cost-effectively than MSRs acquired on the open market. If we are not successful in recapturing our existing loans that are refinanced, our servicing portfolio will become increasingly subject to run-off, and we may need to purchase additional MSRs on the open market to add to our servicing portfolio, which would increase ours costs and risks and decrease the profitability of our servicing business. We may not be able to recover our significant investments in personnel and our technology platform if we cannot originate and acquire MSRs on favorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in personnel and our technology platform to allow us to service additional loans. In particular, we invest significant resources in recruiting, training, technology and systems. We may not realize the expected benefits of these investments to the extent we are unable to increase the pool of residential mortgage loans we service, we are delayed in obtaining the right to service such loans or we do not appropriately value the MSRs that we do purchase. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or to enter into other transactions with borrowers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of borrowers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness 19of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. We additionally rely on representations from public officials concerning the licensing and good standing of the third party mortgage brokers through which we do business. While we have a practice of independently verifying the borrower information that we use in deciding whether to extend credit or to agree to a loan modification, including employment, assets, income and credit score, if any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. We have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our loan originations operations; however, we may not have detected or may not detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations or from our business clients. Any such misrepresented information could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, when we originate loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to the loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected, and we may be subject to repurchase or indemnification obligations under loan sales agreements. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the broker, another third party or one of our own employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is not typically saleable or is subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. Even though we may have rights against persons and entities who made or knew about the misrepresentation, such persons and entities are often difficult to locate and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses that we have suffered as a result of their actions. Increases in delinquencies and defaults may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Falling home prices across the United States have resulted in higher LTVs, lower recoveries in foreclosure and an increase in loss severities above those that would have been realized had property values remained the same or continued to increase. Though housing values have stabilized in some markets, many borrowers do not have sufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance their existing loans, which may reduce the volume or growth of our loan production business. This may also provide borrowers with an incentive to default on their mortgage loans even if they have the ability to make principal and interest payments. Further, interest rates have remained at historical lows for an extended period of time. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans must make larger monthly payments when the interest rates on those mortgage loans adjust upward from their initial fixed rates or low introductory rates to the rates computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Increases in monthly payments may increase the delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures on a significant number of the loans that we service.Increased mortgage delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures may result in lower revenue for loans that we service for the GSEs, including Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, because we only collect servicing fees from GSEs for performing loans. Additionally, while increased delinquencies generate higher ancillary fees, including late fees, these fees are not likely to be recoverable in the event that the related loan is liquidated. In addition, an increase in delinquencies lowers the interest income that we receive on cash held in collection and other accounts because there is less cash in those accounts. Also, increased mortgage defaults may ultimately reduce the number of mortgages that we service. Increased mortgage delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures will also result in a higher cost to service those loans due to the increased time and effort required to collect payments from delinquent borrowers and to liquidate properties or otherwise resolve loan defaults if payment collection is unsuccessful, and only a portion of these increased costs are recoverable under our servicing agreements. Increased mortgage delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures may also result in an increase in our interest expense and affect our liquidity as a result of borrowing under our credit facilities to fund an increase in our advancing obligations. In addition, we are subject to risks of borrower defaults and bankruptcies in cases where we might be required to repurchase loans sold with recourse or under representations and warranties. A borrower filing for bankruptcy during foreclosure would have the effect of staying the foreclosure and thereby delaying the foreclosure process, which may potentially result in a reduction or discharge of a borrower’s mortgage debt. Even if we are successful in foreclosing on a loan, the liquidation proceeds upon sale of the underlying real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. For example, foreclosure may create a negative public perception of the related mortgaged property, resulting in a diminution of its value. Furthermore, any costs or delays involved in the foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property will further reduce the net proceeds and, thus, increase the loss. If these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20GSE Actions May Negatively Impact our MSRs and BusinessOn January 18, 2011, the FHFA announced that it has instructed the GSEs to study possible alternatives to the current residential mortgage servicing and compensation system used for single-family mortgage loans. There can be no certainty regarding what the GSEs may propose as alternatives to current servicing compensation practices, or when any such alternatives would become effective. Although MSRs that have already been created may not be subject to any changes implemented by the GSEs, it is possible that, because of the significant role of GSEs in the secondary mortgage market, any changes they implement could become prevalent in the mortgage servicing industry generally. Other industry stakeholders or regulators may also implement or require changes in response to the perception that the current mortgage servicing practices and compensation do not appropriately serve broader housing policy objectives. Changes to the residential mortgage servicing and compensation system would have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings may decrease because of changes in prevailing interest rates, such as the recent increases in interest rates experienced since June 2013, and any corresponding effects on origination volumes or the value of our assets. Our profitability is directly affected by changes in prevailing interest rates, such as the recent increases in interest rates experienced since June 2013. The following are the material risks we face related to changes in prevailing interest rates: •an increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect our loan originations volume because refinancing an existing loan would be less attractive for homeowners and qualifying for a loan may be more difficult for prospective borrowers; •an increase in prevailing interest rates would increase the cost of financing servicing advances and loan originations; •a decrease in prevailing interest rates may require us to record a decrease in the value of our MSRs; and •because certain of the mortgage loans we service have adjustable rates, an increase in prevailing interest rates could cause an increase in delinquency, default and foreclosure rates resulting in increases in both operating expenses and interest expense and could cause a reduction in the value of our assets.We have experienced rapid growth, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Our servicing portfolio, measured in unpaid principal balance, has grown from approximately $624 million at December 31, 2010 to approximately $11.9 billion at December 31, 2013. Our rapid growth has caused, and if it continues will continue to cause, significant demands on our legal, accounting and operational infrastructure, and increased expenses. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the mortgage lending market and legal, accounting and regulatory developments relating to all of our business activities. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address our growth and will require us to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources. As a result, we face significant challenges in: •maintaining adequate financial and business controls;•implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures; and •training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we have acquired and intend to acquire additional loan origination platforms or businesses, servicing assets and businesses and other businesses that we believe complement our existing business and will contribute to our growth, and the failure to do so on attractive terms or at all or to integrate acquisitions into our operations or otherwise manage our planned growth may adversely affect us. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we acquired Crossline, certain assets of Nationstar and an MSRs portfolio from an independent third party, and recently acquired certain assets of Medallion during February 2014. We can provide no assurances that the acquired businesses or MSRs portfolio may achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow, business opportunities, synergies, growth prospects or other anticipated benefits. In addition, goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of our business combinations may be incorrectly valued or become non-recoverable, which could result in impairment charges that would adversely affect our earnings. 21Further, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in identifying future origination platforms or businesses, servicing assets and businesses or other businesses that meet our acquisition criteria or that, once identified, we will be successful in completing an acquisition. We face significant competition for attractive acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, some of which have greater financial resources and a greater access to debt and equity capital to secure and complete acquisitions than we do. As a result of such competition, we may be unable to acquire certain assets or businesses that we deem attractive or the purchase price may be significantly elevated or other terms may be substantially more onerous. In addition, we may seek to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings, the use of retained cash flows, and offerings of equity and debt securities, which may not be available on advantageous terms, or at all. Any delay or failure on our part to identify, negotiate, finance on favorable terms, consummate and integrate such acquisitions could impede our growth. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have expanded our business through acquisitions. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions and businesses and acquisitions of servicing portfolios, as well as future acquisitions of businesses, servicing portfolios and origination platforms will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate those portfolios, platforms and businesses with our business. The process of acquiring assets or companies may disrupt our business and may not result in the full benefits expected. The risks associated with acquisitions include, among others: •unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; •unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; •direct and indirect costs and liabilities; •not retaining key employees; and •the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. Moreover, the acquired portfolios, platforms or businesses may not contribute to our revenues or earnings to any material extent, and cost savings and synergies we expect at the time of an acquisition may not be realized once the acquisition has been completed. If we inappropriately value the assets or businesses we acquire or the value of the assets or businesses we acquire declines after we acquire them, the resulting charges may negatively affect the carrying value of the assets on our balance sheet and our earnings. See the risk factor titled, “We use financial models and estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets, such as MSRs, commitments to originate loans, mortgage loans held for sale and related hedging instruments. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges, which could adversely affect our earnings.” Furthermore, if we incur additional indebtedness to finance an acquisition, the acquired business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service that additional indebtedness. Unsuitable or unsuccessful acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our mortgage financing business is subject to risks, including the risk of default and competitive risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Through NattyMac, we provide financing to correspondents and other third party residential mortgage originators with respect to the loans they originate, and these customers may default on their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay the line of credit or transfer the relevant loan under such financing arrangements. If our financing customers default on their obligations to us, we could incur losses. In addition, competition in warehouse lending has increased on a national level as new lenders, including national, community and regional banks that use deposit funds to finance loans, have begun entering the mortgage warehouse business. If increased competition negatively affects our mortgage financing business, our earnings could decrease. The change of control rules under Section 382 of the Code may limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future taxable income. We have net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes. Generally, NOL carryforwards can be used to reduce future taxable income. Our use of our NOL carryforwards will be limited, however, under Section 382 of the Code, if we undergo a change in ownership of more than 50% of our capital stock over a three-year period as measured under Section 382 of the Code. These complex change of ownership rules generally focus on ownership changes involving shareholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of our stock, including certain public “groups” of shareholders as set forth under Section 382 of the Code, including those arising from new stock issuances and other equity transactions. We believe we experienced an ownership change for these purposes in October 2013 as a result of our initial public offering and in March 2012 as a result of a significant investment in preferred stock. In connection with any future public or private offerings, it is likely that we will experience another ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code, measured for this purpose by including transfers and issuances of stock that took place after the ownership change that we believe occurred in March 2012 and October 2013. If we experience another ownership change, the resulting annual limit on the use of our NOL 22carryforwards (which would generally equal the product of the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate, multiplied by the value of our capital stock immediately before the ownership change, and potentially increased by certain existing gains, if any, recognized within five years after the ownership change if we have a net built-in gain in our assets at the time of the ownership change) could result in a meaningful increase in our federal and state income tax liability in future years. Whether an ownership change occurs by reason of trading in our stock is not within our control and the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is complex. No assurance can be given that we will not in the future undergo another ownership change that would have a significant adverse effect on the use of our NOL carryforwards. In addition, the possibility of causing an ownership change may reduce our willingness to issue new common stock to raise capital. As a public reporting company, we are subject to rules and regulations established from time to time by the SEC and the NYSE regarding our internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete needed improvements to our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the market price of our common stock and your investment. Upon completion of our IPO, we became a public reporting company subject to the rules and regulations established from time to time by the SEC and the NYSE. These rules and regulations require, among other things, that we establish and periodically evaluate procedures with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting. Reporting obligations as a public company are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company we will be required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by the time our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2014 is due and thereafter, which will require us to document and make significant changes to our internal controls over financial reporting. Likewise, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting when we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, although we could potentially qualify as an “emerging growth company” until December 31, 2018. As a result, we are in the process of improving our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, incurring substantial expenses in making such improvements and testing our systems and hiring additional personnel. However, if we are unable to remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in the future, if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls (at the time they are required to do so), if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot deliver (at such time as it is requested to do so by us) a report attesting to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or if we in the future identify and fail to remediate material weaknesses in our internal controls identified in the future, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could harm our reputation and the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to manage our business effectively or accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our common stock price and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our mortgage loan origination business is dependent upon our ability to effectively interface with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to efficiently process loan applications and closings. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement. We are in the process of enhancing our proprietary, automated, risk-based due diligence platform (known as OLIE), which we expect to provide a highly scalable, transparent, and consistent diligence platform from loan origination to securitization. We believe OLIE is a significant competitive advantage, but the technology in this platform is new and is still being refined and implemented. If we are unsuccessful in implementing this platform as quickly as we intend, or if we experience technical difficulties with the platform, our business and operations could be adversely affected. Our due diligence platform and other technologies may not meet our expectations or maintain our needs for technological advancement. Further, the development of such technologies and maintaining and improving new technologies will require significant capital expenditures and maintaining the technological proficiency of our personnel will require significant expense. As technological requirements increase in the future, we will have to fully develop these capabilities to remain competitive, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs and place restrictions on certain originations and servicing operations, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other things: (i) the creation of a Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks posed by financial firms, activities and practices, and to improve cooperation among federal agencies; (ii) the 23creation of CFPB authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products; (iii) the establishment of strengthened capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; (iv) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives and securitization markets; and (v) amendments to the Truth in Lending Act aimed at improving consumer protections with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards and prepayment considerations. On January 10, 2013, the CFPB announced a rule to implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to mortgage originations. Under the new originations rule, before originating a mortgage loan, lenders must determine on the basis of certain information and according to specified criteria that the prospective borrower has the ability to repay the loan. Lenders that issue loans meeting certain requirements will be presumed to comply with the new rule with respect to these loans. On January 17, 2013, the CFPB announced rules to implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to mortgage servicing. The new servicing rules require servicers to meet certain benchmarks for customer service. Servicers must provide periodic billing statements and certain required notices and acknowledgments, promptly credit borrowers’ accounts for payments received and promptly investigate complaints by borrowers and are required to take additional steps before purchasing insurance to protect the lender’s interest in the property. The new servicing rules also call for additional notice, review and timing requirements with respect to delinquent borrowers, including early intervention, ongoing access to servicer personnel and specific loss mitigation and foreclosure procedures. Both the origination and servicing rules took effect on January 10, 2014. The CFPB also issued guidelines on October 13, 2011 and January 11, 2012 indicating that it would send examiners to banks and other institutions that service and/or originate mortgage loans to assess whether consumers’ interests are protected. The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the implementation of the new origination and servicing rules by the CFPB and the CFPB’s continuing examination of our industry, will increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs and place restrictions on our servicing operations, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. State or federal governmental examinations, legal proceedings or enforcement actions and related costs could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We are routinely involved in regulatory reviews and legal proceedings concerning matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. An adverse result in regulatory actions or examinations or private lawsuits may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, a number of participants in our industry have been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and regulatory actions by state regulators and other industry participants have been the subject of actions by state Attorneys General. Regulatory investigations, both state and federal, can be either formal or informal. The costs of responding to the investigations can be substantial. In addition, government-mandated changes to servicing practices could lead to higher costs and additional administrative burdens, in particular regarding record retention and informational obligations. The enforcement consent orders by, agreements with, and settlements of, certain federal and state agencies against other mortgage servicers related to foreclosure practices could impose additional compliance costs on our servicing business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The federal and state agencies overseeing certain aspects of the mortgage market have entered into settlements and enforcement consent orders with other mortgage servicers regarding foreclosure practices that primarily relate to mortgage loans originated during the credit crisis. The enforcement consent orders require the servicers, among other things, to: (i) make significant modifications in practices for residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing, including communications with borrowers and limitations on dual-tracking, which occurs when servicers continue to pursue foreclosure during the loan modification process; (ii) establish a single point of contact for borrowers throughout the loan modification and foreclosure processes; and (iii) establish robust oversight and controls pertaining to their third party vendors, including outside legal counsel, that provide default management or foreclosure services. Although we are not a party to any of these settlements and enforcement consent orders and lack the legacy loans that gave rise to these settlements and enforcement consent orders, the practices set forth in those settlements and consent orders are being adopted by the industry as a whole, forcing us to comply with them in order to follow standard industry practices. We may also become required to comply with these practices by our servicing agreements. While we have made and continue to make changes to our operating policies and procedures in light of these settlements and consent orders, further changes could be required, and changes to our servicing practices will increase compliance costs for our servicing business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24Our foreclosure proceedings in certain states may be delayed due to inquiries by certain state Attorneys General, court administrators and state and federal government agencies, the outcome of which could have an adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. Allegations of irregularities in foreclosure processes, including so-called “robo-signing” by mortgage loan servicers, have gained the attention of the Department of Justice, regulatory agencies, state Attorneys General and the media, among other parties. Certain state Attorneys General, court administrators and government agencies, as well as representatives of the federal government, have issued letters of inquiry to mortgage servicers requesting written responses to questions regarding policies and procedures, especially with respect to notarization and affidavit procedures. Even though we have not received any letters of inquiry and we do not have the legacy loans that have been examined for irregularities in the foreclosure process, our operations may be affected by regulatory actions or court decisions that are taken in connection with these inquiries. In addition to these inquiries, several state Attorneys General have requested that certain mortgage servicers suspend foreclosure proceedings pending internal review to ensure compliance with applicable law. The current legislative and regulatory climate could lead borrowers to contest foreclosures that they would not otherwise have contested under ordinary circumstances, and we may incur increased litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. Delays in foreclosure proceedings could also require us to make additional servicing advances by drawing on our financing facilities, or delay the recovery of advances, all or any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur increased costs and related losses if a borrower challenges the validity of a foreclosure action, if a court overturns a foreclosure or if a foreclosure subjects us to environmental liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court overturns a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to a title insurer or the purchaser of the property sold in foreclosure. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. A significant increase in litigation costs could adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for an advance could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the course of our business, it is necessary to foreclose and take title to real estate, which could subject us to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. Hazardous substances or waste, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. We could be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at such properties. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial and could substantially exceed the value of the real property. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. We may be unable to recover costs from any third party. These occurrences may materially reduce the value of the affected property, and we may find it difficult or impossible to use or sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans are especially exposed to increases in monthly payments and they may not be able to refinance their loans, which could cause delinquency, default and foreclosure and therefore adversely affect our business. At December 31, 2013, we serviced adjustable rate mortgage loans that represented less than 0.1% of our total servicing portfolio. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related mortgage loan’s interest rate adjusts upward from an initial fixed rate or a low introductory rate, as applicable, to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans seeking to refinance their mortgage loans to avoid increased monthly payments as a result of an upwards adjustment of the mortgage loan’s interest rate may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. This increase in borrowers’ monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans, which may cause delinquency, default and foreclosure. Increased mortgage defaults and foreclosures may adversely affect our business as they increase the cost of servicing the mortgage loans we service and reduce the number of mortgage loans we service. 25Our counterparties may terminate our MSRs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The owners of the loans we service may, under certain circumstances, terminate our MSRs. Ginnie Mae may terminate our status as an issuer if we fail to comply with servicing standards or otherwise breach our agreement with Ginnie Mae. If this were to happen, Ginnie Mae would seize our MSRs and not compensate us for our MSRs. As is standard in the industry, under the terms of our master servicing agreement with GSEs, GSEs have the right to terminate us as servicer of the loans we service on their behalf at any time and the GSEs also have the right to cause us to sell the MSRs to a third party. In addition, failure to comply with servicing standards could result in termination of our agreements with GSEs. See the risk factor titled, “Because we are required to follow the guidelines of the GSEs with which we do business and are not able to negotiate our fees with these entities for the purchase of our loans, our competitors may be able to sell their loans to GSEs on more favorable terms.” Some GSEs may also have the right to require us to assign the MSRs to a subsidiary and sell our equity interest in the subsidiary to a third party. If we were to have our servicing rights terminated on a material portion of our servicing portfolio, this could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislative and Agency initiatives in mortgage-backed securities and securitization may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are federal and state legislative and Agency initiatives that could, once fully implemented, adversely affect our business. For instance, the risk retention requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act requires securitizers to retain a minimum beneficial interest in MBS they sell through a securitization, absent certain qualified residential mortgage (“QRM”) exemptions. Once implemented, the risk retention requirement may result in higher costs of certain origination operations and impose on us additional compliance requirements to meet servicing and origination criteria for QRMs. Additionally, the amendments to Regulation AB relating to the registration statement required to be filed by asset-backed securities (“ABS”) issuers adopted in March 2011 by the SEC pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act would increase compliance costs for ABS issuers, which could in turn increase our cost of funding and operations. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to indemnify purchasers of the mortgage loans we originate or of the MBS backed by such loans or to repurchase the related loans if the loans fail to meet certain criteria or characteristics. The indentures governing our securitized pools of mortgage loans and our contracts with purchasers of our whole loans contain provisions that require us to indemnify purchasers of the loans we originate or of the MBS backed by such loans or to repurchase the related loans under certain circumstances. While our contracts vary, they contain provisions that require us to repurchase loans if: •our representations and warranties concerning loan quality and loan circumstances are inaccurate; •we fail to secure adequate mortgage insurance within a certain period after closing; •a mortgage insurance provider denies coverage; or •we fail to comply, at the individual loan level or otherwise, with regulatory requirements in the current dynamic regulatory environment. We believe that, as a result of the current market environment, many purchasers of residential mortgage loans are particularly aware of the conditions under which originators must indemnify them or repurchase loans they have purchased and would benefit from enforcing any repurchase remedies they may have. We believe that our exposure to repurchases under our representations and warranties includes the current unpaid balance of all loans we have sold. If we are required to indemnify or repurchase loans that we originate and sell or securitize that result in losses that exceed our reserve, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we are required to follow the guidelines of Ginnie Mae and the GSEs and are not able to negotiate our fees with these entities for the purchase of our loans, our competitors may be able to sell their loans to Ginnie Mae or the GSEs on more favorable terms. In our transactions with Ginnie Mae and the GSEs, we are required to follow specific guidelines that impact the way we service and originate mortgage loans including: •our staffing levels and other servicing practices; •the servicing and ancillary fees that we may charge; •our modification standards and procedures; and •the amount of non-reimbursable advances. In particular, the FHFA has directed GSEs to align their guidelines for servicing delinquent mortgages they own or guarantee, which can result in monetary incentives for servicers that perform well and penalties for those that do not. In 26addition, FHFA has directed Fannie Mae to assess compensatory fees against servicers in connection with delinquent loans, foreclosure delays, and other breaches of servicing obligations. We cannot negotiate these terms with the GSEs, and they are subject to change at any time. A significant change in these guidelines that has the effect of decreasing our fees or requires us to expend additional resources in providing mortgage services could decrease our revenues or increase our costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to make servicing advances that can be subject to delays in recovery or may not be recoverable in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our cash flows, liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.During any period in which a borrower is not making payments, we are required under most of our servicing agreements to advance our own funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for investors, pay property taxes and insurance premiums, pay legal expenses and fund other protective advances. We also advance funds to maintain, repair and market real estate properties that we service. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac currently permit us to stop advancing delinquent principal and interest when a loan is 120 days delinquent, but this policy could change at any time. As home values change, we may have to reconsider certain of the assumptions underlying our decisions to make advances and, in certain situations, our contractual obligations may require us to make certain advances for which we may not be reimbursed. In addition, in the event a mortgage loan serviced by us defaults or becomes delinquent, the repayment to us of the advance may be delayed until the mortgage loan is repaid or refinanced or a liquidation occurs. With respect to loans in Ginnie Mae pools, advances are not recovered until the loan becomes current or we make a claim with the FHA or other insurer, and our right to reimbursement is capped. They are typically recovered upon weekly or monthly reimbursement or from sale in the market. In the event we receive requests for advances in excess of amounts we are able to fund, we may not be able to fund these advance requests, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and liquidity. An increase in delinquency and default rates on the loans that we service will increase the need for us to make advances. If delinquencies were to increase at the same time that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were to change their policies about reimbursing advances at 120 days delinquent, this combination would adversely affect our liquidity. These actions could take place in a distressed economic environment, and thus, we may find it difficult to retain our warehouse financing, which finances our business. If so, then we could find it extremely difficult to continue operations. Even if this combination of risks does not occur at the same time, any increase in delinquency or delay in our ability to collect an advance may adversely affect our cash flows and liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for an advance could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, as we continue to grow our originations to increase our loan servicing portfolio, the negative operating cash flows we have experienced will likely continue in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. From time to time, we have used various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, including the commitments we make to prospective borrowers, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. The derivative financial instruments that we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risks. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and documented transactions or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risks and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. Our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use may not be able to adequately offset the risks of interest rate volatility, and our hedging transactions may result in or magnify losses. Furthermore, interest rate derivatives may not be available on favorable terms or at all, particularly during economic downturns. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A delay in obtaining or failure to obtain servicer ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with our business of servicing non-Agency mortgage loans, we are pursuing obtaining servicer ratings from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings as a residential mortgage loan servicer. We expect to receive those ratings, but there can be no assurances that we will receive servicer ratings from each rating agency in a timely manner, or at all. A delay in obtaining or failure to obtain servicer ratings will delay our ability to increase our non-Agency mortgage loan servicing business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any ratings that we receive may be downgraded in the future. Any such downgrade could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27Technology failures or terrorist attacks could damage our business operations and increase our costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry as a whole is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, and system disruptions and failures caused by fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters and other similar events may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our borrowers and other business partners. Security breaches, acts of vandalism and developments in computer capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our borrowers’ personal information and transaction data. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties such as persons involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our reliance on the internet and use of web-based product offerings and on the use of cybersecurity. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our systems or a defect in the integrity of our systems or cybersecurity could cause serious negative consequences for our business, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our customers, or damage to our computers or operating systems and to those of our customers and counterparties. Any of the foregoing events could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure and harm to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted the U.S. financial markets, including the real estate capital markets, and negatively impacted the U.S. economy in general. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, the consequences of any military or other response by the United States and its allies, and other armed conflicts could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. The economic impact of these events could also adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments and the properties underlying our interests. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future attacks and these losses may adversely impact our performance and may cause the market value of our shares of common stock to decline or be more volatile. A prolonged economic slowdown, recession or declining real estate values could impair the performance of our investments and harm our financial condition and results of operations, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that potential future armed conflicts and terrorist attacks would have on us. Losses resulting from these types of events may not be fully insurable. We have purchased certain refinancing loans where the correspondent originating the refinancing loan failed to obtain a satisfaction and release of the prior mortgage loan. In early 2013, we became aware that we purchased certain refinancing loans with original principal amounts totaling approximately $5.2 million in cases where the prior mortgage on the property securing the mortgage loan that we purchased from the correspondent was not satisfied and released by the correspondent’s title company at the time the loan from the correspondent was made. As part of our process in purchasing a mortgage loan from a correspondent, we generally require that a closing protection letter be issued by the title insurer in favor of the borrower. A closing protection letter was obtained with respect to each of these loans. As a result, the borrower should be insured against any liens prior to ours that were not identified in connection with the issuance of that closing protection letter. We believe that our procedures, including conducting a post-purchase audit, were effective in identifying the failure by the correspondent to obtain a release of the prior mortgage and that our practice of obtaining closing protection letters is appropriate to protect us in these situations. We have notified the affected borrowers and the relevant insurance carriers, and we expect that the title insurance obtained in connection with the refinancings will result in our loan having a first priority status. However, there can be no assurances that the prior mortgages will be fully satisfied from the title insurance claims or that instances like this will not occur in the future. Any failure of our internal security measures or breach of our privacy protections could cause harm to our reputation and subject us to liability, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive and store certain confidential information concerning borrowers. Additionally, we enter into third party relationships to assist with various aspects of our business, some of which require the exchange of confidential borrower information. If a third party were to compromise or breach our security measures or those of the vendors, through electronic, physical or other means, and misappropriate such information, it could cause interruptions in our operations and expose us to significant liabilities, reporting obligations, remediation costs and damage to our reputation. 28Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also risk factor titled, “Technology failures or terrorist attacks could damage our business operations and increase our costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Our vendor relationships subject us to a variety of risks. We have significant vendors that, among other things, provide us with financial, technology and other services to support our mortgage loan servicing and origination businesses. With respect to vendors engaged to perform activities required by servicing criteria, we have elected to take responsibility for assessing compliance with the applicable servicing criteria for the applicable vendor and are required to have procedures in place to provide reasonable assurance that the vendor’s activities comply in all material respects with servicing criteria applicable to the vendor, including but not limited to, monitoring compliance with our predetermined policies and procedures and monitoring the status of payment processing operations. In the event that a vendor’s activities do not comply with the servicing criteria, it could negatively impact our servicing agreements. In addition, if our current vendors were to stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, including as a result of one or more vendor bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other vendors in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, we may incur significant costs to resolve any such disruptions in service and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in April 2012 the CFPB issued CFBP Bulletin 2012-03 which states that supervised banks and non-banks could be held liable for actions of their service providers. As a result, we could be exposed to liability, CFBP enforcement actions or other administrative penalties if the vendors with whom we do business violate consumer protection laws.The loss of the services of our senior executives could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The experience of our senior executives is a valuable asset to us. Our management team has significant experience in the residential mortgage origination and servicing industry. We have obtained a key life insurance policy on Mr. Cutillo but do not maintain and do not currently plan to obtain key life insurance policies on any of our other senior managers. Additionally, under certain financing agreements, the loss of the services of senior executives could have adverse consequences. Under the Master Purchase Agreement between us and Barclays Bank PLC (“Barclays”), dated as of December 20, 2013, if Mr. Cutillo resigns, is removed or experiences a substantial change in management responsibilities without the approval of Barclays, an event of default would occur. If an event of default occurs, Barclays may terminate the agreement and may exercise various other remedies. Under the Master Repurchase Agreement between us and Bank of America, N.A. (“Bank of America”), dated as of February 26, 2014, event of default is defined to include a change in key personnel without the prior written consent of Bank of America. Key personnel is defined as Mr. Cutillo as chief executive officer, Mr. Bettenburg as president and Mr. Swain as executive vice president of loan servicing. If an event of default occurs, Bank of America may declare certain amounts immediately due and payable and may exercise various other remedies. Thus, the loss of services of our senior executives could thus adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce. Our future success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel for all areas of our organization, in particular skilled managers, loan servicers, debt default specialists, loan officers and underwriters. Trained and experienced personnel are in high demand and may be in short supply in some areas. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced employees have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to competitors who may seek to recruit them. We may not be able to attract, develop and maintain an adequate skilled workforce necessary to operate our businesses, and labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, we may not be able to take advantage of acquisitions and other growth opportunities that may be presented to us, and this could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely affect our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending and debt collection practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can also result from media coverage, whether accurate or not. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and employees and can expose us to litigation and 29regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers, business partners and communities, this risk will always be present in our organization. 30ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTSNone.