Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to lease our properties when our leases expire. The weighted average remaining term of our leases in effect as of December 31, 2011 is 4.9 years based upon annual rental income and 4.7 years based upon occupied square footage. As of December 31, 2011, leases representing approximately 51.4% of our rental income and 54.6% of our occupied square footage will expire by December 31, 2016. Although we typically will seek to renew our leases with current tenants when these leases expire, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. If our tenants do not renew their leases, we may be unable to enter leases with substitute tenants. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants our rents may decline and our expenses may increase. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may receive less rent than we received under the leases that expired. Laws and regulations applicable to government leasing often require public solicitations of bids when new or renewal leases are being considered. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain government tenants. Some of our current rents include payments to amortize the cost of tenant improvements which government tenants may be unwilling to pay or contractually allowed to eliminate when leases are renewed. Also, whenever we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may have to spend substantial amounts for tenant fit out, leasing commissions and other tenant inducements. As a consequence of lower rents or increased expenses when we renew leases or lease to new tenants, our net income and cash available to pay distributions to our shareholders may decline. We may be unable to identify additional properties to acquire and grow our business. Our business plan is to acquire additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants. There are a limited number of such properties, and we will have fewer opportunities to grow our investments than REITs that purchase properties that are leased to both government and non-government tenants or that are not leased when they are acquired. Accordingly, our business plan to acquire additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants may not succeed. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund new acquisitions. Recently, there has been a significant reduction in the amount of capital available for real estate investments on a global basis and increased volatility in most debt and equity markets. Our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not 28 guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail. We face significant competition. We plan to acquire properties that are majority leased to government tenants whenever we are able to identify such investment opportunities we consider appropriate and have sufficient available financing to complete such acquisitions. We face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors and this competition may subject us to the following risks: •we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including other REITs, financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies who are engaged in our business; and •competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price we must pay to acquire properties, especially as access to debt capital becomes more readily available and lending terms become more lenient. In addition, substantially all of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located and more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners leasing available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Government tenants may be particularly difficult to attract and retain because they may be viewed as desirable tenants by other landlords. Our acquisitions may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates acquisitions of additional properties. We cannot assure you that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating costs for acquisitions may be higher than we anticipate and acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our property acquisitions may cause us to experience losses. The U.S. Government's "green lease" policies may adversely affect us. In recent years the U.S. Government has instituted "green lease" policies which allow a government tenant to require leadership in energy and environmental design for commercial interiors, or LEED®-CI, certification in selecting new premises or renewing leases at existing premises. In addition, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 allows the GSA to prefer buildings for lease that have received an "Energy Star" label. Obtaining such certifications and labels may be costly and time consuming, but our failure to do so may result in our competitive disadvantage in acquiring new or retaining existing government tenants. 29 Some government tenants have the right to terminate their leases prior to their lease expiration date. Almost all of our current rents come from government tenants. Some of our leases with government tenants allow the tenants to vacate the leased premises before the stated terms of the leases expire with little or no liability. In particular: •Tenants occupying approximately 12.6% of our rentable square feet and contributing approximately 8.7% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2011 have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases before the stated term of their lease expires. •In 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, early termination rights become exercisable by other tenants who currently occupy an additional approximately 3.4%, 4.0%, 2.6%, 0.2%, 6.1%, 0.6%, 1.2%, 1.0% and 0.6% of our rentable square feet, respectively, and contribute an additional approximately 3.1%, 3.7%, 2.8%, 0.3%, 8.9%, 0.7%, 1.5%, 1.7% and 0.7% of our annualized rental income, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. •Pursuant to eight leases with eight of our state government tenants, these tenants have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases if these states do not appropriate rent amounts in their respective annual budgets. These eight leases represent approximately 7.7% of our rentable square feet and 7.7% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2011. For fiscal policy reasons, security concerns or other reasons, some or all of our government tenants may decide to vacate our properties. If a significant number of such vacancies occur, our rental income may materially decline and we may become unable to pay regular distributions to our shareholders or we may reduce the amounts of such distributions. We currently have a concentration of properties in the Washington, D.C. metro area and are exposed to changes in market conditions in this area. Approximately 24.6% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2011 was received from properties located in the Washington, D.C. metro area. A downturn in economic conditions in this area could result in reduced demand from tenants for our properties or lower the rents that our government tenants in this area are willing to pay when our leases expire and renewal terms are negotiated. Additionally, within the past few years there has been a large number of speculative real estate developments in the Washington, D.C. metro area, and a surplus of newly developed space could adversely affect our ability to retain our government tenants when our leases expire. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our term loan and revolving credit facility would adversely affect our business and may prevent our paying distributions to you. Both our term loan and revolving credit facility include various conditions to our borrowing and various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our term loan or our revolving credit facility at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding under these instruments, our lenders may demand immediate payment. Any default under our term loan or our revolving credit facility would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our securities to materially decline and may prevent our paying distributions to our shareholders. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had $440.8 million in debt outstanding, which was 33.1% of our total book capitalization. Our revolving credit facility and term loan permit us and our subsidiaries to incur 30 additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Amounts recoverable under our leases for increased operating costs may be less than the actual increased costs. Under most of our leases, the tenant's obligation to pay us adjusted rent for increased operating costs (e.g. the costs of cleaning services, supplies, materials, maintenance, trash removal, landscaping, water, sewer charges, heating, electricity and certain administrative expenses) is increased annually based on a cost of living index rather than the actual amount of our costs. Accordingly, the amount of any rent adjustment may not fully offset any increased costs we may incur in providing these services, including any increased energy costs which result from climate change laws designed to reduce carbon emissions. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our securities. Interest rates are currently at historically low levels and may well increase. There are three principal ways that increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our securities: •Funds borrowed under our term loan and revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $345.5 million of debt outstanding at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to pay distributions. •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. •We expect to pay regular distributions on our common shares. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our common shares may decline. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; •defaults by our tenants; •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; and •asbestos, lead and mold related liabilities and costs of containment or removal and other environmental hazards at our properties for which we may be liable, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, adjacent properties or other parties. 31 Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Our properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. Various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we are not assured that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including environmental damages at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at such properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase, but we do not expect the direct impact of these increases to be material to our results of operations because the increased costs either would be the responsibility of our tenants directly or in large part may be passed through by us to our tenants as additional lease payments. Although we do not believe it is likely in the foreseeable future, laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, tenant and lease data. Some of these systems are owned by RMR. We and RMR purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We and RMR rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Risks Related to Our Relationships with CWH and RMR and its Affiliates As long as CWH retains significant ownership of us, your ability to influence matters requiring shareholder approval will be limited. As of February 22, 2012, CWH owned approximately 21.1% of our outstanding common shares. For so long as CWH continues to retain a significant ownership stake in us, CWH may be able to effectively elect all of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, and may effectively control the outcome of shareholder actions. As a result, CWH may have the ability to effectively control all matters affecting us, including: •the composition of our Board of Trustees and, through our Board of Trustees, determinations with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; •determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; •our financing activities; •the payment of distributions on our common shares; and •the number of common shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans. CWH's significant ownership in us and possible resulting ability to effectively control us may discourage transactions involving a change of control. CWH's ability to sell its ownership stake in us and speculation about such possible sales may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. CWH is not generally prohibited from selling some or all of its common shares, and CWH may do so without our approval. CWH has advised us that it does not have any current plans to sell or otherwise dispose of its common shares. However, CWH has a history of contributing certain of its properties into new REITs in exchange for an ownership stake in the REIT and then selling or distributing its stake in such REITs over time. So long as CWH continues to retain significant ownership in us, the liquidity and market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted. In addition, speculation by the press, stock analysts, shareholders or others regarding CWH's intention to dispose of our common shares it owns could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Accordingly, your common shares may be worth less than they would be if CWH did not have significant ownership in us. We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR, and as a result our expenses may increase. 33 Our management structure and our manager's other activities may create conflicts of interest or create the perception of conflicts of interest. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as making our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our individual operating activities and investments, but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam Portnoy serves as President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other companies managed by RMR. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies managed by RMR. Such equity ownership and positions by our Trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. RMR also acts as the manager for three other NYSE-listed REITs: CWH, which primarily owns and operates commercial office and industrial buildings and leased industrial land; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; and SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living properties and medical office buildings. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including FVE, which operates senior living communities, including independent living and congregate care communities, assisted living communities, nursing homes and hospitals; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and RMR's other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and CWH may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our management agreements with RMR were negotiated between affiliated parties and may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if negotiated between unaffiliated parties. We pay RMR business management fees based in part upon the historical cost of our investments (including acquisition costs) which at any time may be more or less than the fair market value thereof, plus an incentive fee based upon certain increases in our FFO Per Share, as defined in our business management agreement with RMR. We also pay RMR property management fees based in part upon the gross rents we collect from tenants and the costs of construction we incur. For more information, see "Business—Manager." Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties, to undertake unnecessary construction activities or to overpay for acquisitions or construction. These arrangements may also encourage RMR to discourage our sales of properties. Our management agreements were negotiated between affiliated parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been were they negotiated on an arm's length basis between unaffiliated parties. Our management agreements with RMR may discourage our change of control. Termination of our management agreements with RMR would be a default under both our term loan and our revolving credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. RMR can terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost 34 increases. For these reasons, our management agreements may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for your common shares. Provisions in our transaction agreement with CWH and our management agreements with RMR may restrict our investment activities and create conflicts of interest or the perception of conflicts of interest. The transaction agreement we entered with CWH at the time of our IPO and our management agreements with RMR restrict our ability to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of another business now or in the future managed by RMR. In addition, RMR has discretion to determine whether a particular investment opportunity is within our investment focus or that of another business managed by RMR. Under our management agreements with RMR, we have also agreed to first offer any property within the principal investment focus of another REIT to which RMR provides management services to such REIT prior to entering into any sale or other disposition arrangement with respect to such property. As a result of these contractual provisions, we have limited ability to invest in properties that are within the investment focus of other businesses managed by RMR or properties that are not, at the time of our investment, properties majority leased to government tenants. These agreements do not restrict our ability, or the ability of other businesses managed by RMR, to lease properties to any particular tenant, but our management agreements afford RMR discretion to determine which leasing opportunities to present to us or to other businesses managed by RMR. There is no assurance that any conflicts created by these agreements will be resolved in our favor. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, with Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention, even if the allegations are not substantiated. We may experience losses from our business dealings with Affiliates Insurance Company. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we are currently investigating the possibilities to expand our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR, CWH and four other companies to which RMR provides management services each own approximately 14.29% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. These beneficial financial results may not occur and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, our anticipated financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may be delayed or not achieved, and we may experience losses from these dealings. 35 Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium or implementing changes. Our Declaration of Trust prohibits any shareholder other than CWH, RMR and their affiliates from owning more than 9.8% of the number or value of our common shares or of any other class or series of our outstanding shares. This provision of our Declaration of Trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws and under Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be considered beneficial by some shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, and in each case, until a successor is elected and qualifies, which could delay a change in our control; •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees"; •limitations on the ability of, and various requirements that must be satisfied in order for, our shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business for a meeting of shareholders; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our Bylaws; •the fact that only our Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; •because of our ownership of AIC, we are an insurance holding company under applicable state law; accordingly, anyone who intends to solicit proxies for a person to serve as one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to adopt certain amendments to our Declaration of Trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares, to create new classes or series of shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders), to increase or decrease the authorized number of shares of any class or series, and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our shares or any new class or series of shares created by our Board of Trustees. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for any of our shares they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies. 36 Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our Declaration of Trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our Bylaws and indemnity contracts require us to indemnify any present or former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our Bylaws and indemnity contracts or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with CWH and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with CWH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration. Similarly our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against CWH, RMR or our Trustees or officers. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon 37 review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forego attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under both our term loan and our revolving credit facility, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our common shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by U.S. corporations to individual stockholders is 15% through 2012. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that investment in REITs is less attractive than investment in non-REIT entities that pay dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common shares. Risks Related to Our Securities There is no assurance that we will continue to make distributions. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur; •our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our term loan and our revolving credit facility; and •any distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including, but not limited to, requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, limitations in our revolving credit facility and our term loan, the availability of debt and equity capital to us, our normalized funds from operations, or Normalized FFO, and our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance. Differences between our income for financial reporting purposes and for applicable federal income tax purposes may also affect the determination of our common share distributions. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 