Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to identify additional properties to acquire and grow our business. Our business plan is to acquire additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants. There are a limited number of such properties, and we will have fewer opportunities to grow our investments than REITs that purchase properties that are leased to both government and non-government tenants or that are not leased when they are acquired. Accordingly, our business plan to acquire additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants may not succeed. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. We intend to elect and qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2009. To qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund new acquisitions. Recently, there has been a significant reduction in the amount of capital available for real estate investments on a global basis. Our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Additionally, since we are a recently formed company with a limited operating history, it may be more difficult for us to raise reasonably priced capital than more established companies, many of which have established financing programs and, in some cases, have investment grade credit ratings. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail. We face significant competition. We plan to acquire properties that are majority leased to government tenants whenever we are able to identify such investment opportunities and have sufficient available financing to complete such acquisitions. We face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors and this competition may subject us to the following risks: •we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including other REITs, financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies who are engaged in our business; and 27 Table of Contents •competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price we must pay to acquire properties, especially as access to debt capital becomes more readily available and lending terms become more lenient. In addition, substantially all of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located and more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners leasing available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Government tenants may be particularly difficult to attract and retain because they may be viewed as desirable tenants by other landlords. Our acquisitions may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates acquisitions of additional properties. We cannot assure you that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating expenses at properties we acquire may be higher than we anticipated at the time of our acquisitions and such acquisitions may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our property acquisitions may cause us to experience losses. The U.S. Government's "green lease" policies may adversely affect us. In recent years the U.S. Government has instituted "green lease" policies which allow a government tenant to require leadership in energy and environmental design for commercial interiors, or LEED®-CI, certification in selecting new premises or renewing leases at existing premises. In addition, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 allows the GSA to prefer buildings for lease that have received an "Energy Star" label. Obtaining such certifications and labels may be costly and time consuming, but our failure to do so may result in our competitive disadvantage in acquiring new or retaining existing government tenants. We may be unable to lease our properties when our leases expire. The weighted average remaining term of our leases in effect as of December 31, 2009 is 4.1 years based both upon annual rental income and occupied square footage. As of December 31, 2009, leases representing approximately 64.7% of our rental income and 63.9% of our occupied square footage will expire by December 31, 2013. Although we will seek to renew our leases with current tenants when these leases expire, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. If our tenants do not renew their leases, we may be unable to enter leases with substitute tenants. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants our rents may decline and our expenses may increase. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may receive less rent than we received under the leases that expired. Laws and regulations applicable to government leasing often require public solicitations of bids when new or renewal leases are being considered. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain government tenants. Some of our current rents include payments to amortize the cost of tenant improvements which government tenants may be unwilling to pay or 28 Table of Contents contractually allowed to eliminate when leases are renewed. Also, whenever we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may have to spend substantial amounts for tenant fit out, leasing commissions and other tenant inducements. As a consequence of lower rents or increased expenses when we renew leases or lease to new tenants, our net income and cash available to pay distributions to you may decline. Some government tenants have the right to terminate their leases prior to their lease expiration date. Almost all of our current rents come from government tenants. Some of our leases with government tenants allow the tenants to vacate the leased premises before the stated terms of the leases expire with little or no liability. In particular: •Tenants occupying approximately 13.7% of our rentable square feet and contributing approximately 11.1% of our rental income as of December 31, 2009, have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases before the stated term of their lease expires. •In 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2014, early termination rights become exercisable by other tenants who currently occupy an additional approximately 6.5%, 2.5%, 1.1% and 2.5% of our rentable square feet, respectively, and contribute an additional approximately 5.4%, 4.2%, 1.2% and 3.0% of our rental income, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. •Two of our state government tenants have the currently exercisable right to terminate their leases if these states do not appropriate rent in their respective annual budgets. These two tenants occupy approximately 3.4% of our rentable square feet and contribute approximately 2.4% of our rental income as of December 31, 2009. For fiscal policy reasons, security concerns or other reasons, some or all of our government tenants may decide to vacate our properties. If a significant number of such vacancies occur, our rental income may materially decline and we may become unable to pay regular distributions to you or we may reduce the amounts of such distributions. An increase in the amount of government owned real estate may adversely affect us. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, enacted in February 2009, included several billion dollars for construction, repair and alteration of government owned buildings. It remains unclear how these expenditures may impact us. If there is a large increase in the amount of government owned real estate as a consequence of this legislation, certain government tenants may relocate from our properties to government owned real estate. Similarly, it may become more difficult for us to renew our government leases when they expire or to locate additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants in order to grow our business if more government owned space is developed. We currently have a concentration of properties in the DC metro area and are exposed to changes in market conditions in this area. Approximately 30.8% of our rental income as of December 31, 2009 was received from properties located in the DC metro area. A downturn in economic conditions in this area could result in reduced demand from tenants for our properties or lower the rents that our government tenants in this area are willing to pay when our leases expire and renewal terms are negotiated. Additionally, within the past few years there has been a large number of speculative real estate developments in the DC metro area, and a surplus of newly developed space could adversely affect our ability to retain our government tenants when our leases expire. 29 Table of Contents Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our secured revolving credit facility would adversely affect our business and may prevent our paying distributions to you. Our $250 million secured revolving credit facility includes various conditions to our borrowing and various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. For example, our ability to borrow under our secured revolving credit facility depends upon the net rental income received from the collateral properties. Similarly, important financial covenants in our secured revolving credit facility include our covenant to maintain certain debt service and leverage ratios, our compliance with which depends upon the net rental income we receive from all our properties. In the event that the occupancy at our properties which are collateral for our secured revolving credit facility were to decline or if the rents we can charge for these properties were to decline, we may be unable to borrow under our secured revolving credit facility, the amounts we may borrow under our secured revolving credit facility may decrease or we may be in default under our secured revolving credit facility. In addition, our secured revolving credit facility provides that a change in control of us or a termination of our management agreements with RMR may cause the amounts outstanding under our secured revolving credit facility to become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to borrow under our secured revolving credit facility we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our secured revolving credit facility at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding under our secured revolving credit facility, our lenders may demand immediate payment or foreclose our properties or realize upon other assets which are their collateral. The covenants and conditions which apply to us with respect to debt, if any, which we incur in addition to our secured revolving credit facility may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions in our secured revolving credit facility. Any default under our outstanding secured revolving credit facility or other debt we may incur would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our securities to materially decline. A covenant in our secured revolving credit facility prohibits us from paying distributions in excess of 95% of our Funds From Operations, as defined therein, other than certain distributions in connection with qualifying as a REIT. Our rental income could decline to a level whereby our current distribution rate would exceed 95% of our defined Funds From Operations, and, as a consequence, we would not be permitted under our secured revolving credit facility to make a distribution at our expected distribution rate. Amounts recoverable under our leases for increased operating costs may be less than the actual increased costs. Under most of our leases, the tenant's obligation to pay us adjusted rent for increased operating costs (e.g. the costs of cleaning services, supplies, materials, maintenance, trash removal, landscaping, water, sewer charges, heating, electricity and certain administrative expenses) is increased annually based on a cost of living index rather than the actual amount of our costs. Accordingly, the amount of any rent adjustment may not fully offset any increased costs we may incur in providing these services, including any increased energy costs which result from climate change laws designed to reduce carbon emissions. 30 Table of Contents Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our securities. There are three principal ways that increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our securities: •Funds borrowed under our secured revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to pay distributions to you. •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. •We expect to pay regular distributions on our Shares. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of your Shares may decline. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; •defaults by our tenants; •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; and •asbestos, lead and mold related liabilities and costs of containment or removal and other environmental hazards at our properties for which we may be liable, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, adjacent properties or other parties. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Our properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. Various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we are not assured that we will not be held liable for environmental clean up at our properties, including environmental damages at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at the properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase. Under most of our leases the tenant's obligation to pay us adjusted rent for increased operating costs is limited annually to a cost of living index increase rather than the actual amount of our costs. As a result, in the event our operating costs, including energy costs, exceed the cost of living index, we will be required to bear those excess costs. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationships with HRP and RMR As long as HRP retains significant ownership of us, your ability to influence matters requiring shareholder approval will be limited. As of the date of this report, HRP owns approximately 31.8% of our outstanding Shares. For so long as HRP continues to retain a significant ownership stake in us, HRP may be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, and may effectively control the outcome of shareholder actions. As a result, HRP may have the ability to control all matters affecting us, including: •the composition of our Board of Trustees and, through our Board of Trustees, determinations with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; •determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; •our acquisition or disposition of assets; •our financing activities; •the payment of distributions on our Shares; and •the number of Shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans. HRP's significant ownership in us and resulting ability to effectively control us may discourage transactions involving a change of control, including transactions in which you as a holder of our Shares might otherwise receive a premium for your Shares over the then current market price. HRP's ability to sell its ownership stake in us and speculation about such possible sales may adversely affect the market price of our Shares. HRP is not generally prohibited from selling some or all of its shares, and HRP may do so without your approval. HRP has advised us that it does not have any current plans to sell or otherwise dispose of its shares. However, HRP has a history of successfully divesting certain of its properties into new REITs and then selling or distributing its stake in such REITs over time. So long as HRP continues to retain significant ownership in us, the liquidity and market price of our Shares may be adversely impacted. In addition, speculation by the press, stock analysts, shareholders or others regarding HRP's intention to dispose of its Shares could adversely affect the market price of our Shares. Accordingly, your Shares may be worth less than they would be if HRP did not have significant ownership in us. Our management structure and our manager's other activities may create conflicts of interest. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the properties that will be proper investments for us, as well as our individual investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our properties but does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and a director, and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director, of RMR and our President. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of various companies managed by RMR. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies managed by RMR. Such equity ownership and positions by our trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. We cannot assure you that the provisions in our Declaration of Trust or our Bylaws adequately address 32 Table of Contents potential conflicts of interest or that such actual or potential conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. RMR also acts as the manager for three other publicly traded REITs: HRP, which primarily owns and operates office and industrial buildings and leased industrial land; SNH, which primarily owns senior living properties and medical office buildings; and HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including FVE, which operates senior living communities, including independent living and congregate care communities, assisted living communities, nursing homes and hospitals; and TA, which operates and franchises travel centers. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Our management agreements with RMR were negotiated between affiliated parties and may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if negotiated between unaffiliated parties. We pay RMR business management fees based upon the historical cost of our investments (including acquisition costs) which at any time may be more or less than the fair market value thereof, plus an incentive fee based upon certain increases in our FFO Per Share, as defined in our business management agreement with RMR. We also pay RMR property management fees based in part upon the gross rents we collect from tenants and the cost of construction we incur. For more information, see "Item 1. Business—Manager." Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties, to undertake unnecessary construction activities or to overpay for acquisitions or construction. These arrangements may also encourage RMR to discourage sales of properties by us. Our management agreements were negotiated between affiliated parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been were they negotiated on an arm's length basis between unaffiliated parties. Our management agreements with RMR may discourage our change of control. Termination of our management agreements with RMR would be a default under our secured revolving credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. RMR is able to terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost increases. For these reasons, our management agreements may discourage a change of control of us. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with trustees, affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Provisions in the transaction agreement and our management agreements with RMR may restrict our investment activities and create conflicts of interest. The transaction agreement and our management agreements with RMR restrict our ability to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of another business now or in the future managed by RMR. In addition, RMR has discretion to determine whether a particular investment opportunity is within our investment focus or that of another business managed by RMR. 33 Table of Contents As a result of these contractual provisions, so long as HRP owns in excess of 10% of our outstanding Shares, we and HRP engage the same manager or we and HRP have one or more common managing trustees, we have limited ability to invest in properties that are within the investment focus of another business managed by RMR or properties that are not, at the time of our investment, properties majority leased to government tenants. These agreements do not restrict our ability, or the ability of other businesses managed by RMR, to lease properties to any particular tenant, and, as a result, we may compete with other businesses managed by RMR for tenants. Our management agreements afford RMR discretion to determine which leasing opportunities to present to us or to other businesses managed by RMR. Accordingly, we may compete with HRP and other businesses managed by RMR for investments in properties that are not within the investment focus of us or another business managed by RMR and for tenants. There is no assurance that any conflicts of interest created by such competition will be resolved in our favor. We depend upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy on favorable terms. Because we are externally managed, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the management fees we pay RMR, and as a result our earnings and cash flows may decline. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium or implementing beneficial changes. Our Declaration of Trust prohibits any shareholder other than HRP, RMR and their affiliates from owning more than 9.8% of the number or value of our Shares or of any other class or series of our outstanding shares. This provision of our Declaration of Trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws and under Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be beneficial to shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year and in each case, where successors are elected and qualify, which could delay a change in our control; •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of trustees and other provisions which are not approved by our trustees require larger majorities for approval of actions than for actions which are approved by our trustees; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other trustees be "Independent Trustees"; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business for a meeting of shareholders; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to remove our trustees; 34 Table of Contents •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our Bylaws; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to amend our Declaration of Trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized Shares, to create new classes or series of shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our Shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders), to increase or decrease the authorized number of shares of any class or series, and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our Shares or any new class of shares created by our Board of Trustees. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited. Our Declaration of Trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our Bylaws require us to indemnify any present or former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against our company only if such proceeding is authorized by our Board of Trustees. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our Bylaws or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with HRP and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our trustees and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with HRP and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against HRP, RMR or our trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Such 35 Table of Contents policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our Shares and our ability to make distributions to you. Risks Related to Our Taxation Our failure to qualify or remain qualified for taxation as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. We intend to elect and qualify to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2009, and to maintain such qualification thereafter. Qualifying as a REIT, however, depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. Even if we initially qualify as a REIT, maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forego attractive investments. If we fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our secured revolving credit facility, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our Shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by U.S. corporations to individual stockholders is 15% through 2010. Distributions paid by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for this reduced rate. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that investment in REITs is less attractive than investment in non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our Shares. Risks Related to Our Securities There is no assurance that we will continue to make distributions. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur; •our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our secured revolving credit facility; •our distributions in the future may include a return of capital; •any distributions will be made in the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our results of operations, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status, our capital requirements, our funds from operations, or FFO, our cash available for distribution, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, economic conditions and restrictions under Maryland law; and •there are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions. 36 Table of Contents For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Our audited financial statements may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. We completed our IPO on June 8, 2009 and, since that date, we have been operating as an independent public company. Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflect our operations as an independent public company only since June 8, 2009. Accordingly, our audited financial statements do not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the entirety of the periods presented. This financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or expenses will be in the future. It is impossible for us to accurately estimate all adjustments which may reflect all the significant changes that will occur in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our separation from HRP, including potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with being a separate publicly traded company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 