Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described 25 Table of Contents in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading “Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements” before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to lease our properties when our leases expire. The weighted average remaining term of our leases in effect as of December 31, 2014, excluding one property classified as discontinued operations and one property sold to its tenant at the end of its lease term in February 2015, is 4.9 years based upon annual rental income and 5.1 years based upon occupied square footage. As of December 31, 2014, excluding one property classified as discontinued operations and one property sold to its tenant at the end of its lease term in February 2015, leases representing approximately 59.6% of our annualized rental income and 55.5% of our occupied square footage will expire by December 31, 2019. Although we typically will seek to renew our leases with current tenants when these leases expire, we cannot assure that we will be successful in doing so. If our tenants do not renew their leases, we may be unable to enter into new leases with substitute tenants. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants our rents may decline and our expenses may increase. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may receive less rent than we currently receive. Laws and regulations applicable to government leasing often require public solicitations of bids when new or renewal leases are being considered. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain government or other tenants. Some of our current rents include payments to amortize the cost of tenant improvements which government tenants may be unwilling to pay or contractually allowed to eliminate when leases are renewed. When we lease to new tenants or renew leases we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant fit outs or other tenant inducements. Many of our leases are for properties that are specially suited to the particular business of our tenants. Because these properties have been designed or physically modified for a particular tenant, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property at substantial costs, decrease the rent we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. There is a general trend among government tenants and in office real estate generally for tenants to decrease the square feet they occupy per employee and to reconfigure leased space for changed use. This increase in utilization rates may result in tenants renewing leases for less square feet than they currently occupy, which could increase our vacancy rate at our properties. We may be unable to grow our business by acquisitions and our acquisitions may not be successful. An element of our business plan involves the acquisition of additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants. There are a limited number of such properties, and we will therefore have fewer acquisition opportunities than REITs that purchase properties that are leased to both government and non‑government tenants or properties that are not leased when acquired. In addition, our ability to complete attractive acquisitions may be subject to risks associated with: · competition from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies; · contingencies in our acquisition agreements; · the availability of financing; and · the terms of our indebtedness. 26 Table of Contents Additionally, we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. For example: · notwithstanding pre‑acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time, and we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction; · the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property’s value; · the occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents or returns that are in effect or expected at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter; · property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than anticipated and our acquired properties may not yield expected returns; · if we finance acquisitions using new debt or equity issuances, such financing may result in shareholder dilution; · we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for unknown liabilities such as liabilities for cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors, or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; · newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business; and · we might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. For these reasons, among others, our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us to experience losses. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Because of the volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis and the increased volatility in most debt and equity markets generally, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business, market perceptions of our prospects, the terms of our indebtedness or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. We face significant competition. We plan to acquire properties that are majority leased to government tenants whenever we are able to identify investment opportunities we consider appropriate and have sufficient available financing to complete the acquisition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies. Because of competition, we may be unable to, or may pay a significantly increased purchase price to, acquire a desired property. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have. 27 Table of Contents In addition, substantially all of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Government tenants may be particularly difficult to attract and retain because they may be viewed as desirable tenants by other landlords. The U.S. Government’s “green lease” policies may adversely affect us. In recent years the U.S. Government has instituted “green lease” policies which allow a government tenant to require leadership in energy and environmental design for commercial interiors, or LEED®‑CI, certification in selecting new premises or renewing leases at existing premises. In addition, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 allows the GSA to give preference to buildings for lease that have received an “Energy Star” label. Obtaining such certifications and labels may be costly and time consuming, but our failure to do so may result in our competitive disadvantage in acquiring new or retaining existing government tenants. Some government tenants have the right to terminate their leases prior to their lease expiration date and changes in the U.S. Government’s and state governments’ requirements for leased space may adversely affect us. Almost all of our current rents come from government tenants. Some of our leases with government tenants allow the tenants to vacate the leased premises before the stated terms of the leases expire with little or no liability. In particular: · Tenants occupying approximately 8.3% of our rentable square feet and contributing approximately 7.1% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2014, excluding one property classified as discontinued operations and one property sold to its tenant at the end of its lease term in February 2015, have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases before the stated term of their leases expire. · In 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2022 and 2023, excluding one property classified as discontinued operations and one property sold to its tenant at the end of its lease term in February 2015, early termination rights become exercisable by other tenants who currently occupy an additional approximately 3.9%, 4.7%, 2.7%, 1.1%, 4.6%, 2.9%, 1.2% and 1.4% of our rentable square feet, respectively, and contribute an additional approximately 2.3%, 4.8%, 2.2%, 1.3%, 5.1%, 2.9%, 0.7%, and 1.2% of our annualized rental income, respectively, as of December 31, 2014. · Pursuant to leases with 13 of our government tenants, these tenants have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases if their respective legislature or other funding authority does not appropriate rent amounts in their respective annual budgets. These 13 tenants represent approximately 14.6% of our rentable square feet and 15.1% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2014. For fiscal policy reasons, security concerns or other reasons, some or all of our government tenants may decide to exercise early termination rights under our leases or vacate our properties upon expiration of our leases. We believe the U.S. Government is actively trying to reduce the square foot per employee in its owned and leased buildings and trying to consolidate out of leased space and into government owned spaces. If a significant number of such events occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to make or sustain regular distributions to our shareholders may be jeopardized. We currently have a concentration of properties in the Washington, D.C. metro area and are exposed to changes in market conditions in this area. Approximately 26.1% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2014, excluding one property classified as discontinued operations, was received from properties located in the Washington, D.C. metro area. A downturn in economic conditions in this area could result in reduced demand from tenants for our properties or lower the rents that our government tenants in this area are willing to pay when our leases expire or terminate and when renewal or new terms are negotiated. Additionally, in recent years there has been a decrease in demand for new leased space by the U.S. Government 28 Table of Contents in the Washington, D.C. metro area, and that could increase competition for government tenants and adversely affect our ability to retain government tenants when our leases expire. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, and we may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2014, we had $1.1 billion in debt outstanding, which was 45.5% of our total book capitalization. Together, these obligations are substantial, could have important consequences to holders of our common shares and could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, refinancing, lease obligations or other purposes. They may also increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business operations or to our industry overall, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. In addition, amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loans bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due. For further information regarding our exposure to risks associated with market changes in interest rates, please see elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us. Any or all of the above events and factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we default under a loan (including any default in covenants contained in our credit agreement or our senior unsecured notes indenture and its supplement), we may be in default under any other loan that has cross-default provisions, further borrowings under our revolving credit facility may be prohibited, outstanding indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, term loan, unsecured notes indenture and its supplement or such other loans may be accelerated, and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indenture and its supplement contain terms limiting our ability to incur additional debt. These terms, or our failure or inability to meet them, could adversely affect our business and may prevent us from making distributions to our shareholders. Our credit agreement includes various conditions to our borrowing, financial and other covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain certain minimum debt service coverage and leverage ratios, and events of default. Our senior unsecured notes indenture and its supplement also impose customary restrictions on us, including requiring us to comply with certain debt to asset ratios and debt service coverage ratios if we want to incur additional debt and requiring us to maintain at least a specified ratio of total unencumbered assets to debt. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. Further, maintaining compliance with these covenants may limit our ability to pursue actions that may otherwise be beneficial to us and our shareholders. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by acquiring additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our credit agreement, our lenders may demand immediate payment and our lenders under our revolving credit facility may elect not to make further borrowings available to us. Additionally, during the continuance of any event of default under our credit agreement, we will be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions on our common shares. Any default under our credit agreement that resulted in our obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness being accelerated or in our no longer being permitted to borrow under our revolving credit facility would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our common shares to materially decline. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our credit agreement. Defaults under our future debt could likely have the same consequences as described above. 29 Table of Contents Amounts recoverable under our leases for increased operating costs may be less than the actual increased costs. Under most of our leases, the tenant’s obligation to pay us adjusted rent for increased operating costs (e.g. the costs of cleaning services, supplies, materials, maintenance, trash removal, landscaping, snow removal, water, sewer charges, heating, electricity and certain administrative expenses) is increased annually based on a cost of living index rather than the actual amount of our costs. Accordingly, the amount of any rent adjustment may not fully offset any increased costs we may incur in providing these services, including any increased energy costs which result from climate change laws designed to reduce carbon emissions or otherwise. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time and it is unclear how long rates will remain low. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us, including in the following ways: · Amounts outstanding under our credit agreements bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us. · An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. Further, increased interest rates may effectively increase the cost of properties we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for properties, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept. · Interest rates may negatively impact the value of our common shares, which may increase our cost of capital, including decreasing the amount of equity and debt we may be able to raise, increasing the extent of dilution from any equity offering we may make or increasing the costs to us for any such equity or debt offering. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, properties they own, and we cannot assure that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial. We believe any asbestos in our buildings is contained in accordance with current regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished these properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations. There have recently been severe weather activities in different parts of the country that some observers believe evidence global climate change. Such severe weather that may result from climate change may have an adverse effect on individual properties we own. Further, the current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial 30 Table of Contents condition and results of operations. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of Climate Change.” Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. In addition to the risks related to environmental hazards and climate change, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including: · the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; · the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time; · property and casualty losses; · costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the ADA; · legislative and regulatory developments that may occur at the federal, state and local levels that have direct or indirect impact on the ownership, leasing and operation of our properties; and · litigation incidental to our business. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants and lease data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing this confidential information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems’ improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break‑ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has proposed accounting rules that would require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee’s rights and obligations. If the proposal is adopted in its current form, many companies that account for certain leases on an “off balance sheet” basis would be required to account for such leases “on balance sheet.” This change would remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants’ businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. If the proposal is adopted, it could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms, in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. 31 Table of Contents The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and the recovery to date has been slow, unsteady and incomplete. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and the recovery to date has been slow, unsteady and incomplete, which has created volatile market conditions, resulted in a decrease in availability of credit and led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. While the markets currently show signs of stabilizing and growth, it remains unclear when the economy will fully recover to pre-recession levels. Continued economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants, and could impact the ability of our tenants to renew our leases or to pay rent to us. Insurance on our properties may not adequately cover all losses and uninsured losses could materially and adversely affect us. Generally, we are responsible for the costs of insurance coverage for our properties, including for casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage. Under certain circumstances insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to an affected property and we could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we do not have any insurance designated to limit any losses that we may incur as a result of known or unknown environmental conditions which are not caused by an insured event, such as, for example, fire or flood. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. Under the ADA, places of public accommodation and/or commercial facilities must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with this law. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. A number of additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations exist regarding access by disabled persons. These regulations may require modifications to our properties or may affect future renovations. These expenditures may have an adverse impact on overall returns on our investments. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements or could otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us by RMR pursuant to our contracts with RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to implement our growth strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR’s business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase. 32 Table of Contents Our management structure and agreements and relationship with RMR may restrict our investment activities and may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. RMR also acts as the manager for three other NYSE-listed REITs: HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living and medical office buildings; and SIR, which primarily owns and invests in net leased, single tenant properties. RMR also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including FVE, which operates senior living communities; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers and convenience stores; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and to other companies to which it provides management services may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our management agreements were negotiated between related parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated between unrelated parties. Our property management fees are calculated based on rents we receive and construction supervision fees for construction at our properties overseen and managed by RMR, and our base business management fee is calculated based upon the lower of the historical costs of our real estate investments and our market capitalization. These fee arrangements could incentivize RMR to pursue acquisitions, capital transactions, tenancies and construction projects or to avoid disposing our assets in order to increase or maintain its management fees. Our Independent Trustees oversee our acquisition and disposition program and capital transactions and regularly review our properties’ results, rents, leasing activities, budgets and construction activities as well as market trends. If we do not effectively manage our investment, disposition, and capital transactions and leasing, construction and other property management activities, we may pay increased management fees without proportional benefits to our shareholders. In our management agreements with RMR, we also acknowledge that RMR may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to our policies and objectives and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR. These agreements do not restrict our ability, or the ability of other businesses managed by RMR, to lease properties to any particular tenant. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other public companies to which RMR provides management services. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other public companies to which RMR provides management services and such equity ownership or positions could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its related parties. 33 Table of Contents Our management arrangements with RMR may discourage our change of control. A default under our credit agreement would occur if RMR ceases to act as our business manager and property manager, unless waived by our lenders holding at least a majority of the aggregate credit exposure under the applicable agreement. RMR is able to terminate its management agreements with us upon 120 days’ written notice. If we terminate or elect not to renew our business management agreement other than for cause, or if we terminate or elect not to renew our property management agreement other than for cause, we are obligated to pay RMR termination fees. We may be unable to duplicate, without considerable cost increases, the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR if we become internally managed or if we contract with other parties for management services. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR, SIR, AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention even if the action is unfounded. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $6.0 million in AIC, we have purchased a substantial portion of our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR and five other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 14.3% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC’s business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Ownership Interest in SIR The market value of our ownership in SIR may decline. We own 21,500,000 SIR common shares. As of December 31, 2014, the carrying value of our SIR common shares was $680.1 million, but the market value of those common shares was only $524.8 million based on the closing price of SIR’s common shares on the NYSE on that day. We have no ability to control the market price of SIR’s common shares. If it appears that the market value of our SIR common shares is persistently below the carrying value of our SIR common shares, we may be required to record an impairment charge with regard to our ownership of the SIR common shares, and the amount of this charge may be material. We may be unable to realize the market value or the carrying value of our SIR common shares at the time of sale. As of the date of this Annual Report, we own 24.3% of SIR’s total outstanding common shares. Because we own such a large number of SIR common shares which represents such a large percentage of SIR’s outstanding common shares, any effort we make to sell our SIR common shares may depress the market value of SIR’s common shares and we may be unable to realize an otherwise market price for our SIR common shares. Speculation by the press, stock analysts, our shareholders or others regarding our intention with respect to our investment in SIR could adversely affect the market price of SIR’s common shares, including our SIR common shares. Also, we may be unable to sell our SIR common shares for an amount equal to the carrying value of our SIR common shares because of the significance of our SIR holdings, reduced market value of SIR common shares or otherwise. Although we own a large percentage of SIR’s outstanding common shares, we do not control SIR’s day to day activities, some of which may adversely impact us. Although we own a large percentage of SIR’s outstanding common shares and may have significant influence over SIR’s board of trustees and the outcome of shareholder actions, we do not control SIR’s day to day activities. Certain activities by SIR could adversely impact us or the value or our investment in SIR. For example: · SIR may incur substantial amounts of indebtedness, which may adversely impact the value of SIR’s common shares, including our SIR common shares; · SIR’s board of trustees may lower the amount of distributions that SIR pays to its shareholders, including us, which would reduce the cash flow we realize by owning our SIR common shares and could adversely impact our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and future distributions on our common shares; · SIR may determine to issue significant amounts of equity capital, which would dilute our ownership interest in SIR; · SIR may issue additional common shares at a per share price below the per share carrying value of our SIR common shares, which would dilute the value of our SIR common shares and may require us to recognize losses on our SIR investment; · SIR may incur losses because it is unable to maintain the occupancy or rents it now receives from its properties or because of increased operating expenses or otherwise, and any such losses may reduce the value of our SIR common shares; and · Our relationship with SIR may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than RMR and its affiliates (as defined under Maryland law), and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees, from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: · the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control of us (our shareholders did not approve a proposed amendment at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders to permit the annual election of all Trustees); · shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; · the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees; · the fact that only our Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; · required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees", as defined in our governing documents; · limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders; · limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; and · the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions. 36 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: · actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or · active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our bylaws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our declaration of trust and bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against RMR or our Trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative 37 Table of Contents interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs or adversely modify their taxation under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our credit agreement, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our common shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced tax rates. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non‑REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common shares. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders’ equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common shares. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. See “Business—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a REIT.” In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non‑cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets and operations through our taxable REIT subsidiaries or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Securities We cannot assure that we will continue to make distributions to our shareholders and distributions we make may include a return of capital. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: · our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant events, occur; · our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our credit agreement and unsecured notes indenture and its supplement, and may be subject to restrictions in future debt we may incur; and · any distributions will be made in the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance, including our funds from operations, or FFO, our normalized funds from operations, or Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indenture and its supplement), tax law requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and our expected needs and availability of cash to pay our obligations. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As with other publicly traded equity securities and REIT securities, the value of our common shares depends on various market conditions that may change from time to time, including: · the extent of investor interest in our securities; · the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate based companies or by other issuers less sensitive to rises in interest rates; · our underlying asset value; · investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally; · market interest rates; · national economic conditions; · changes in tax laws; · changes in our credit ratings; and · general market conditions. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell equity securities of a REIT is the distribution rate, considered as a percentage of the price of the equity securities, relative to market interest rates. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. There is a general market perception that REIT shares outperform in low interest rate environments and underperform in rising interest rate 39 Table of Contents environments when compared to the broader market. During 2014, there were periods when there were market expectations of rising interest rates, which temporarily increased market interest rates and resulted in declines in the value of REIT shares generally that exceeded any declines for the general market. Although current market interest rates remain low, some market forecasts are predicting that interest rates will rise in the near to intermediate term. For example, some industry analysts expect that the United States Federal Reserve may raise short term interest rates, as well as lift its benchmark interest rate from the current historically low level of near zero, during 2015. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of REIT equity securities may expect a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, which may include secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, which may include common and preferred shares. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the payment of all indebtedness and other liabilities and any preferred equity of our subsidiaries. We are the sole obligor on our outstanding senior unsecured notes, and our outstanding senior unsecured notes and any notes or other debt securities we may issue in the future, or (together with our outstanding senior unsecured notes) the Notes, are not, and any Notes we may issue in the future may not be, guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on the Notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. The rights of holders of Notes to benefits from any of the assets of our subsidiaries are subject to the prior satisfaction of claims of our subsidiaries’ creditors and any preferred equity holders. As a result, the Notes are and, except, if any, to the extent future Notes are guaranteed by our subsidiaries, will be, structurally subordinated to all of the existing and other debts, liabilities and obligations, including guarantees of other indebtedness of ours, payment obligations under lease agreements, trade payables and any preferred equity, of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2014, our subsidiaries had total indebtedness and other liabilities (excluding security and other deposits and guaranties) of $208.3 million and our subsidiaries did not have any outstanding preferred equity. The Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. Our outstanding Notes are not secured and any Notes we may issue in the future may not be secured. Upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceeding relating to us or our property, the holders of our secured debt will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and pursuant to the instruments governing such debt and to be paid in full from the assets securing that secured debt before any payment may be made with respect to Notes that are not secured by those assets. In that event, because such Notes will not be secured by any of our assets, it is possible that there will be no assets from which claims of holders of such Notes can be satisfied or, if any assets remain, that the remaining assets will be insufficient to satisfy those claims in full. If the value of such remaining assets is less than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Notes and accrued interest and all future debt ranking equally with such Notes, we will be unable to fully satisfy our obligations under such Notes. In addition, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured debt, the holders of that secured debt would be entitled to foreclose on our assets securing that secured debt and liquidate those assets. Accordingly, we may not have sufficient funds to pay amounts due on such Notes. As a result, holders of Notes may lose a portion of or the entire value of their investment in such Notes. Further, the terms of the outstanding Notes permit, and the terms of any Notes we may issue in the future may permit us to incur additional secured indebtedness subject to compliance with certain debt ratios. The Notes that are not secured will be effectively subordinated to any such additional secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, we had $184.3 million in secured mortgage debt. 40 Table of Contents There is no public market for the Notes, and one may not develop, be maintained or be liquid. We have not applied for listing of the outstanding Notes on any securities exchange or for quotation of the outstanding Notes on any automatic dealer quotation system and may not do so for Notes issued in the future. We can give no assurances concerning the liquidity of any market that may develop for the Notes, the ability of any investor to sell the Notes or the price at which investors would be able to sell them. If a market for the Notes does not develop, investors may be unable to resell the Notes for an extended period of time, if at all. If a market for the Notes does develop, it may not continue or it may not be sufficiently liquid to allow holders to resell any of the Notes. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment readily, and lenders may not readily accept the Notes as collateral for loans. The Notes may trade at a discount from their initial issue price or principal amount, depending upon many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the ratings assigned by rating agencies, the market for similar securities and other factors, including general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects. Any decline in trading prices, regardless of cause, may adversely affect the liquidity and trading markets for the Notes. A downgrade in credit ratings could materially adversely affect the market value of the Notes and may increase our cost of capital. The outstanding Notes are rated by two rating agencies and Notes we may issue in the future may be rated by one or more rating agencies. These credit ratings are continually reviewed by rating agencies and may change at any time based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. Negative changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities could have an adverse effect on the market prices of the Notes and our costs and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. Redemption may adversely affect noteholders’ return on the Notes. We have the right to redeem some or all of the outstanding Notes prior to maturity and may have such a right with respect to any Notes we issue in the future. We may redeem such Notes at times when prevailing interest rates may be relatively low compared to the interest rate of such Notes. Accordingly, holders of such Notes may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as that of the Notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 