Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to lease our properties when our leases expire. The weighted average remaining term of our leases in effect as of December 31, 2013, excluding properties classified as discontinued operations, is 5.4 years based upon annual rental income and 5.6 years based upon occupied square footage. As of December 31, 2013, excluding properties classified as discontinued operations, leases representing approximately 62.4% of our annualized rental income and 58.7% of our occupied square footage will expire by December 31, 2019. Although we typically will seek to renew our leases with current tenants when these leases expire, we cannot assure that we will be successful in doing so. If our tenants do not renew their leases, we may be unable to enter new leases with substitute tenants. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants our rents may decline and our expenses may increase. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may receive less rent than we currently receive. Laws and regulations applicable to government leasing often require public solicitations of bids when new or renewal leases are being considered. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain government or other tenants. Some of our current rents include payments to amortize the cost of tenant improvements which government tenants may be unwilling to pay or contractually allowed to eliminate when leases are renewed. When we lease to new tenants or renew leases we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant fit outs or other tenant inducements. Many of our leases are for properties that are specially suited to the particular business of our tenants. Because these properties have been designed or physically modified for a particular tenant, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property at substantial costs, decrease the rent we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. There is a general trend in the office real estate sector for tenants to decrease the square feet they occupy per employee and to reconfigure leased space for changed use. This increase in utilization rates may result in a tenant renewing a lease for less square feet than they currently occupy, which could increase our vacancy rate at our properties, or if this occurs in a single tenant building could result in un-leasable space at a property. We may be unable to acquire additional properties and grow our business and we cannot assure that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. An element of our business plan involves the acquisition of additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants. There are a limited number of such properties, and we will have fewer opportunities to grow our investments than REITs that purchase properties that are leased to both government and non-government tenants or properties that are not leased when acquired. Accordingly, 27 we cannot assure that our business plan to acquire additional properties that are majority leased to government tenants will succeed. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than we anticipate and our acquired properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us losses. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Because of the volatility in the availability of capital to business on a global basis and the increased volatility in most debt and equity markets generally, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. We face significant competition. We plan to acquire properties that are majority leased to government tenants whenever we are able to identify investment opportunities we consider appropriate and have sufficient available financing to complete the acquisition. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies. Because of competition, we may be unable to, or may pay a significantly increased purchase price to, acquire a desired property. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and management resources than we have. In addition, substantially all of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Government tenants may be particularly difficult to attract and retain because they may be viewed as desirable tenants by other landlords. 28 The U.S. Government's "green lease" policies may adversely affect us. In recent years the U.S. Government has instituted "green lease" policies which allow a government tenant to require leadership in energy and environmental design for commercial interiors, or LEED®-CI, certification in selecting new premises or renewing leases at existing premises. In addition, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 allows the GSA to give preference to buildings for lease that have received an "Energy Star" label. Obtaining such certifications and labels may be costly and time consuming, but our failure to do so may result in our competitive disadvantage in acquiring new or retaining existing government tenants. Some government tenants have the right to terminate their leases prior to their lease expiration date and changes in the U.S. and state government's requirements for leased space may adversely affect us. Almost all of our current rents come from government tenants. Some of our leases with government tenants allow the tenants to vacate the leased premises before the stated terms of the leases expire with little or no liability. In particular: •Tenants occupying approximately 7.9% of our rentable square feet and contributing approximately 6.1% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2013, excluding properties classified as discontinued operations, have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases before the stated term of their leases expire. •In 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2022 and 2023, excluding properties classified as discontinued operations, early termination rights become exercisable by other tenants who currently occupy an additional approximately 3.8%, 5.5%, 6.4%, 2.6%, 1.0%, 4.1%, 2.5%, 1.3% and 1.4% of our rentable square feet, respectively, and contribute an additional approximately 4.3%, 3.2%, 9.2%, 3.5%, 1.3%, 4.7%, 2.6%, 1.0% and 1.2% of our annualized rental income, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. •Pursuant to 10 leases with six of our state government tenants, these tenants have currently exercisable rights to terminate their leases if these states do not appropriate rent amounts in their respective annual budgets. These 10 leases represent approximately 7.4% of our rentable square feet and 7.3% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2013. For fiscal policy reasons, security concerns or other reasons, some or all of our government tenants may decide to exercise early termination rights under our leases or vacate our properties upon expiration of our leases. Government agencies have been seeking to increase their space utilization under their leases, including reducing the amount of square footage per employee at leased properties, which may reduce the demand for government leased space. If a significant number of such events occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to make or sustain regular distributions to our shareholders may be jeopardized. We currently have a concentration of properties in the Washington, D.C. metro area and are exposed to changes in market conditions in this area. Approximately 23.1% of our annualized rental income as of December 31, 2013, excluding properties classified as discontinued operations, was received from properties located in the Washington, D.C. metro area. A downturn in economic conditions in this area could result in reduced demand from tenants for our properties or lower the rents that our government tenants in this area are willing to pay when our leases expire or terminate and when renewal or new terms are negotiated. Additionally, in the past year there has been a decrease in demand for new leased space by the U.S. Government in the Washington, D.C. metro area, and that could increase competition for government tenants and adversely affect our ability to retain government tenants when our leases expire. 29 Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements would adversely affect our business and may prevent us from making distributions to our shareholders. Our revolving credit facility agreement includes various conditions to our borrowing and our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements include various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding under these instruments, our lenders may demand immediate payment, and if we default under our revolving credit facility, our lenders may elect to not make further borrowings available to us. Any default under our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our shares to materially decline and may prevent our making distributions to our shareholders. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had $597.7 million in debt outstanding, which was 37.7% of our total book capitalization. Our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Amounts recoverable under our leases for increased operating costs may be less than the actual increased costs. Under most of our leases, the tenant's obligation to pay us adjusted rent for increased operating costs (e.g. the costs of cleaning services, supplies, materials, maintenance, trash removal, landscaping, water, sewer charges, heating, electricity and certain administrative expenses) is increased annually based on a cost of living index rather than the actual amount of our costs. Accordingly, the amount of any rent adjustment may not fully offset any increased costs we may incur in providing these services, including any increased energy costs which result from climate change laws designed to reduce carbon emissions or otherwise. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares. Interest rates have recently risen from their historical lows but remain below historical long term averages. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares, including in the following ways: •Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loan bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us. 30 •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. Further, increased interest rates may effectively increase the cost of properties we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for properties, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept. •We expect to make regular distributions to our shareholders. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our shares may decline. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising from properties they own. We may be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up costs at, or near, our properties, including at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at such properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial. We believe any asbestos in our buildings is contained in accordance with current regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we remove the asbestos or renovate or demolish the affected properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase in the future. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of Climate Change." Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. In addition to the risks related to environmental hazards and climate change, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time; •property and casualty losses; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; 31 •legislative and regulatory developments that may occur at the federal, state and local levels that have direct or indirect impact on the ownership, leasing and operation of our properties; and •litigation incidental to our business. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants and lease data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential tenant information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has proposed accounting rules that would require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. If the proposal is adopted in its current form, many companies that account for certain leases on an "off balance sheet" basis would be required to account for such leases "on balance sheet." This change would remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. If the proposal is adopted, it could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms, in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR and CWH We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contracts with RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to implement our growth strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase. 32 Our management structure and agreements and relationship with RMR and CWH may restrict our investment activities and may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry M. Portnoy and Adam D. Portnoy. RMR also acts as the manager for four other NYSE-listed REITs: CWH, which primarily owns office properties; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living and medical office buildings; and SIR, which primarily owns and invests in net leased, single tenant properties. RMR also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including FVE, which operates senior living communities; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers and convenience stores; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Barry M. Portnoy and Adam D. Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and to other companies to which it provides management services may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our management agreements were negotiated between related parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated between unrelated parties. In our management agreements with RMR, we acknowledge that RMR may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to those of ours and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR. In addition, our transaction agreement with CWH restricts our right to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of CWH. As a result of these contractual provisions, we have limited ability to invest in properties that are within the investment focus of certain other businesses managed by RMR. These agreements do not restrict our ability, or the ability of other businesses managed by RMR, to lease properties to any particular tenant. Barry M. Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam D. Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other companies to which RMR provides management services. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our Trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its related parties. Our management arrangements with RMR may discourage our change of control. A default under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements would occur if RMR ceases to act as our business manager and property manager, unless waived by our lenders holding 2/3 of the aggregate credit exposure under the applicable agreement. RMR is able to terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control. We may be unable to duplicate, without considerable cost increases, the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR if we become internally managed or if we contract with other parties for management services. 33 For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR, CWH, Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Barry M. Portnoy and Adam D. Portnoy and with other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR and six other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 12.5% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than CWH and RMR and their affiliates, and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees, from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control (although our Board of Trustees has determined to recommend that our shareholders approve at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders an amendment to our declaration of trust to permit the annual election of all Trustees); 34 •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees; •the fact that only our Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees", as defined in our governing documents; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our bylaws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without 35 requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with CWH and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with CWH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly our declaration of trust and bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against CWH, RMR or our Trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments. 36 If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced tax rates. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. See "Business—Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a REIT." In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets and operations through our taxable REIT subsidiaries or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 37 Risks Related to Our Securities We cannot assure that we will continue to make distributions to our shareholders and distributions may include a return of capital. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur; •our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements and may be subject to restrictions in future debt we may incur; and •any distributions will be made in the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance, including our funds from operations, or FFO, our normalized FFO, or Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements), tax law requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and our expected needs and availability of cash to pay our obligations. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 