ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We urge you to carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The risk factors generally have been separated into two groups: risks related to our business and risks related to our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to effectively enhance our existing products or introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology. The healthcare industry is characterized by evolving technologies and industry standards, frequent new product introductions, significant competition and dynamic customer requirements that may render existing products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, our position in the industry could erode rapidly due to unforeseen changes in the features and functions of competing products, as well as the pricing models for such products. The success of our business depends on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new 13 Table of Contents products and adapt to these changing technologies and customer requirements. The success of new product development depends on many factors, including our ability to anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory approvals and clearances on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in a cost-effective and timely manner, maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. To compete successfully in the marketplace, we must make substantial investments in new product development whether internally or externally through licensing, acquisitions or joint development agreements. Our failure to enhance our existing products or introduce new and innovative products in a timely manner would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are able to develop, manufacture and obtain regulatory approvals and clearances for our new products, the success of those products would depend upon market acceptance. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be affected by several factors, including: • the availability of alternative products from our competitors; • the price and reliability of our products relative to that of our competitors; • the timing of our market entry; and • our ability to market and distribute our products effectively. We are subject to complex and costly regulation. Our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national, supranational, federal and state governmental authorities. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory clearance and/or approval to market a medical device or other product. Clearance and/or approval might not be granted for a new or modified device or other product on a timely basis, if at all. Regulations are subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, which may further increase our costs or reduce sales. Unless an exception applies, the FDA requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market clearance or pre-market approval before those products can be marketed or sold in the United States. Modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may also require a new 510(k) clearance. In 2010, the FDA issued draft guidance related to its 510(k) pre-market clearance process, and through this guidance the FDA established additional pre-market requirements. The FDA intends to issue additional guidance documents and regulations over the coming months, which is expected to, among other things, revise certain aspects of the 510(k) review process. Although we cannot predict with certainty the future impact of these initiatives, it appears that the time and cost to get many of our medical devices to market could increase significantly. In addition, we are subject to regulations that govern manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising, and adverse-event reporting that apply after we have obtained clearance or approval to sell a product. Our failure to maintain clearances or approvals for existing products, to obtain clearance or approval for new or modified products, or to adhere to regulations for manufacturing, labeling, advertising or adverse event reporting could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we determine a product manufactured or marketed by us does not meet our specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements, we may seek to correct the product or withdraw the product from the market, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing oversight, including periodic inspection by governmental authorities. Compliance with production, safety, quality control and quality assurance regulations can be costly and time-consuming. The FDA is also expected to issue final guidance documents and regulations over the coming months regarding the Unique Device Identification (“UDI”) System, which will require manufacturers to mark certain medical devices with unique identifiers. While the FDA expects that the UDI System will help track products during recalls and improve patient safety, it will require us to make changes to our manufacturing and labeling, which could increase our costs. 14 Table of Contents The sales and marketing of medical devices is under increased scrutiny by the FDA and other enforcement bodies. If our sales and marketing activities fail to comply with FDA regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings or enforcement actions from the FDA or other enforcement bodies. A number of companies in the healthcare industry have been the subject of enforcement actions related to their sales and marketing practices, including their relationships with doctors and off-label promotion of products. In April 2011, we received a federal administrative subpoena from the Department of Justice. In addition, in September 2011, we received a federal administrative subpoena from the Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the Department of Health and Human Services. In August 2012, we received another federal administrative subpoena from the Department of Justice containing additional information requests. All three subpoenas request documents and other materials that relate primarily to our sales and marketing practices for our ChloraPrep skin preparation product and information regarding our relationships with healthcare professionals. In April 2013, we announced an agreement in principle pursuant to which we expect to pay the government approximately $41 million to resolve the government’s allegations. In connection with these matters, we also entered into a non-prosecution agreement and will continue to cooperate with the government. The agreement in principle remains subject to several conditions, including the completion and execution of a formal settlement agreement and other required documentation. There can be no assurance that we complete the required documentation or finalize the settlement with the government on the proposed terms or at all. The amount and timing of the payment are subject to the final terms of the settlement agreement. See note 13 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for more information. We cannot control the pace or scope of any investigation and responding to the subpoena requests and any investigation will require the allocation of resources, including management time and attention. If we were to become the subject of an enforcement action, including any action resulting from the investigation by the Department of Justice or OIG, it could result in negative publicity, penalties, fines, the exclusion of our products from reimbursement under federally-funded programs and/or prohibitions on our ability to sell our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Cost-containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payers and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Many existing and potential customers for our products within the United States are members of GPOs and IDNs in an effort to reduce costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. Due to the highly competitive nature of the GPO and IDN contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major GPOs and IDNs across our product portfolio. Furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability. While having a contract with a GPO or IDN can facilitate sales to members of that GPO or IDN, it is no assurance that sales volume of those products will be maintained. The members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. In addition, our capital equipment products typically represent a sizeable initial capital expenditure for healthcare organizations. Changes in the budgets of these organizations, the timing of spending under these budgets and conflicting spending priorities, including changes resulting from adverse economic conditions, can have a significant effect on the demand for our capital equipment products and related services. In addition, the implementation of healthcare reform in the United States, which may reduce or eliminate the amount that healthcare organizations may be reimbursed for our capital equipment products and related services, could further impact demand. Any such decreases in expenditures by these healthcare facilities and decreases in demand for our capital equipment products and related services could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Distributors of our products may begin to negotiate terms of sale more aggressively in an effort to increase their profitability. Failure to negotiate distribution arrangements having advantageous pricing or other terms of sale could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to implement distribution arrangements successfully, it could cause us to lose market share to our competitors. Outside the United States, we have experienced downward pricing pressure due to the concentration of purchasing power in centralized governmental healthcare authorities and increased efforts by such authorities to lower healthcare costs. Our failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability in these markets. Current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy and the economic outlook of the United States, Europe and other parts of the world have had and we expect will continue to have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause our customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and have caused and may continue to cause vendors to reduce their output or change terms of sales. We have observed certain hospitals delaying as well as prioritizing capital purchasing decisions, which has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse impact on our financial results into the foreseeable future. In addition, as a result of these recessionary conditions, our customers in and outside of the United States, including foreign governmental entities or other entities that rely on government healthcare systems or government funding, may be unable to pay their obligations on a timely basis or to make payment in full. If our customers’ cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate or fail to improve, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. We also extend credit through an equipment leasing program for a substantial portion of sales to our dispensing product customers. This program and any similar programs that we may establish for sales of our other capital equipment, exposes us to certain risks. We are subject to the risk that if these customers fail to pay or delay payment for the products they purchase from us, it could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs, defaults exceeding our expectations and an adverse impact on the cost or availability of financing. These risks related to our equipment leasing program may be exacerbated by a variety of factors, including adverse economic conditions, decreases in demand for our capital equipment products and negative trends in the businesses of our leasing customers. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. We have engaged in restructuring activities in the past and may engage in other restructuring activities in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may take in the future, any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. In addition, the costs associated with implementing restructuring activities might exceed expectations, which could result in additional future charges. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that these patents will remain valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications. In addition, our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain sufficient protection for our intellectual property, or if we are unable to effectively enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitiveness could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation is costly to defend and can result in significant damage awards, including treble damages under certain circumstances, and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or force us to make significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products. At any given time, we are involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. We can expect to face additional claims of patent infringement in the future. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Defects or failures associated with our products and/or our quality system could lead to the filing of adverse event reports, product recalls or safety alerts with associated negative publicity and could subject us to regulatory actions. Manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off-label uses or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. These problems could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products and result in significant costs and negative publicity. Due to the strong name recognition of our brands, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. In some circumstances, adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture or marketing of our products could result in the suspension or delay of regulatory reviews of our applications for new product approvals or clearances. We may also voluntarily undertake a recall of our products, temporarily shut down production lines, or place products on a shipping hold based on internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to sustain an effective quality control system and effectively train and manage our employee base with respect to our quality system. Our quality system plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects and improving our products and services. While we have a network of quality systems throughout our business lines and facilities, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. A quality or safety issue may result in a public warning letter from the FDA, or potentially a consent decree. We are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA, as discussed further below. In addition, we may be subject to product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacturing and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant clearances or approvals or delays in granting such clearances or approvals, import detentions of products made outside the United States, restrictions on operations or withdrawal 17 Table of Contents or suspension of existing approvals. Any of the foregoing events could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are currently operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA and our failure to comply with the requirements of the amended consent decree may have an adverse effect on our business. We are operating under an amended consent decree with the FDA related to our infusion pump business in the United States. We entered into a consent decree with the FDA in February 2007 related to our Alaris SE pumps, and in February 2009, we and the FDA amended the consent decree to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for our subsidiary that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. In accordance with the amended consent decree, and in addition to the requirements of the original consent decree, we implemented a corrective action plan to bring the Alaris System and all other infusion pumps in use in the United States market into compliance, had our infusion pump facilities inspected by an independent expert and had our recall procedures and all ongoing recalls involving our infusion pumps inspected by an independent recall expert. In July 2010, the FDA notified us that we can proceed to the audit inspection phase of the amended consent decree, which includes the requirement to retain an independent expert to conduct periodic audits of our infusion pump facilities. The costs associated with these ongoing audits, and any actions that we may need to take resulting from these audits, could be significant. We have no reserves associated with compliance with the amended consent decree. As such, we may be obligated to pay more costs in the future because, among other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and/or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the amended consent decree. Moreover, the matters addressed in the amended consent decree could lead to negative publicity that could have an adverse impact on our business. The amended consent decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing, recall products and take other actions. We may also be required to pay monetary damages if we fail to comply with any provision of the amended consent decree. See note 13 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for more information. Any of the foregoing matters could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur product liability losses and other litigation liability. We are, and may be in the future, subject to product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in settlement payments and adjustments not covered by or in excess of insurance. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance on terms acceptable to us or at all because insurance varies in cost and can be difficult to obtain. Our failure to successfully defend against product liability claims or maintain adequate insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. Legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and/or injunctive relief that may affect how we operate our business, or we may enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages that exceed our insurance coverage, if any. In addition, we cannot predict the results of future legislative activity or future court decisions, any of which could lead to an increase in regulatory investigations or our exposure to litigation. Any such proceedings or investigations, regardless of the merits, may result in substantial costs, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and additional restrictions on our sales or the use of our products, which could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business and performance. Our business requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. These systems are vulnerable to interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction, computer viruses, cyber-attacks and other events, which are beyond our control. Systems interruptions could reduce our ability to manufacture and provide service for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. The level of protection and disaster-recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that any such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us, our employees, partners, customers, or our suppliers, which may result in significant costs and government sanctions. In particular, if we are unable to adequately safeguard individually identifiable health information, we may be subject to additional liability under domestic and international laws respecting the privacy and security of health information. We also are pursuing initiatives to transform our information technology systems and processes. Many of our business lines use disparate systems and processes, including those required to support critical functions related to our operations, sales, and financial close and reporting. We are implementing new systems to better streamline and integrate critical functions, which we expect to result in improved efficiency and, over time, reduced costs. While we believe these initiatives provide significant opportunity for us, they do expose us to inherent risks. We may suffer data loss or delays or other disruptions to our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to successfully implement new information technology systems and processes, we may fail to realize cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products, an inability to obtain key components or raw materials or an increase in the cost of key components or raw materials may adversely affect our business. Many of our key products are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. If we experience damage to one or more of our facilities, or our manufacturing capabilities are otherwise limited or stopped due to quality, regulatory or other reasons, it may not be possible to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to quality, regulatory or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products and could expose us to regulatory actions. Further, for reasons of quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase certain components and raw materials from sole suppliers. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components that are acceptable to us, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost containment efforts of our customers and third-party payers, we may be unable to pass along cost increases for key components or raw materials through higher prices to our customers. If the cost of key components or raw materials increases and we are unable fully to recover these increased costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, we could experience lower margins and profitability. New regulations related to conflict minerals may increase our costs and adversely affect our business. We are subject to the SEC’s newly adopted regulations, which require us to determine which of our products contain certain specified minerals, referred to under the regulations as “conflict minerals”, and, if so, to perform an extensive inquiry into our supply chain, in an effort to determine whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”), or an adjoining country. Under the regulations, we are required to file a report with the SEC by May 31, 2014, to disclose and report whether or not such conflict 19 Table of Contents minerals originate from the DRC or an adjoining country. At this time, we have determined that certain of our products contain such specified minerals and have developed a process by which we can identify where such minerals originated. We expect to incur additional costs to comply with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the sources of the specified minerals used in our products, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, which may make it difficult to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. We may engage in strategic transactions, including acquisitions, investments, or joint development agreements that may have an adverse effect on our business. We may pursue transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, technology licensing arrangements and joint development agreements to expand our product offerings and geographic presence as part of our business strategy, which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We may not complete transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement or joint development agreement. Other companies may compete with us for these strategic opportunities. We also could experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges, and other issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of an acquired company or business, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting, regulatory or compliance issues and potential adverse short-term effects on results of operations through increased costs or otherwise. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit profile and/or ratings and result in reduced availability of credit to us or in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. We could experience difficulties, expenditures, or other risks in integrating an acquired company, business, or technology, including, among others: • diversion of management resources and focus from ongoing business matters; • retention of key employees following an acquisition; • demands on our operational resources and financial and internal control systems; • integration of an acquired company’s corporate and administrative functions and personnel; • liabilities of the acquired company, including litigation or other claims; and • consolidation of research and development operations. In addition, we may face additional risks related to foreign acquisitions, including risks related to cultural and language differences and particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may engage in the divestiture of some of our non-core product lines which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our business strategy involves assessing our portfolio of products with a view of divesting non-core product lines that do not align with our objectives. Any divestitures may result in a dilutive impact to our future earnings, as well as significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a product line. See note 2 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for a discussion of our divestitures. 20 Table of Contents We may face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (“PPACA”). Among other initiatives, the legislation implemented a 2.3% annual excise tax on the sales of certain medical devices in the United States, effective January 2013. As this excise tax is recorded as a selling, general and administrative expense, it has and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our operating expenses and results of operations. In fiscal year 2013, we paid approximately $11.4 million related to six months of the medical device tax. We currently expect the impact of the tax to be approximately $20 million to $25 million in fiscal year 2014 and annually thereafter. In addition, the PPACA significantly alters Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements for medical services and medical devices, which could result in downward pricing pressure and decreased demand for our products. As additional provisions of healthcare reform are implemented, we anticipate that Congress, regulatory agencies and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. We cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what ultimate effect federal healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation may have on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We intend to increase our investment in research and development activities, expand our sales and marketing activities, and may make acquisitions. Our ability to take these and other actions may be limited by our available liquidity, including our ability to access our foreign cash balances in a tax-efficient manner. As a consequence, in the future, we may need to seek additional financing. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we lose an investment grade credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations due to restrictive covenants. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-United States laws, regulations and customs. Sales to customers outside of the United States made up approximately 22% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, and we expect that non-United States sales will contribute to future growth as we continue to focus on expanding our operations in markets outside the United States. The risks associated with our operations outside the United States include: • healthcare reform legislation; • changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs; • changes in non-United States government programs; • multiple non-United States regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products; 21 Table of Contents • possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; • different local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements; • possible failure to comply with trade protection and restriction measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-United States operations; • different labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes; • changes in environmental, health and safety laws; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, including changes regarding taxation of income earned outside the United States; • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • economic instability, including the European financial crisis or other economic instability in other parts of the world and the impact on interest rates, inflation and the credit worthiness of our customers; • uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures; • minimal or diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and • regulatory changes that may place our products at a disadvantage. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, we are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries such as the Euro, where we sell our products, our United States dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Additionally, we incur significant costs in foreign currencies and a fluctuation in those currencies’ value can negatively impact manufacturing and selling costs. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices and restrict our operations in the future. We are subject to various United States federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. Furthermore, since many of our customers rely on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs to cover a substantial portion of their expenditures, our exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations. We have outstanding $1.45 billion of senior unsecured notes. This significant amount of debt has important risks to us and our investors, including: • requiring a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; • making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; 22 Table of Contents • increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may not be as highly leveraged with debt as we are; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. In addition, we maintain a $750 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (maturing July 6, 2016). To the extent that we draw on our credit facility or otherwise incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. Further, if we increase our indebtedness, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt. As a result of various restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our senior unsecured notes, our financial flexibility will be restricted in a number of ways. The agreement governing the credit facility subjects us to several financial and other restrictive covenants, including limitations on liens, subsidiary indebtedness and transactions with affiliates. In addition, the failure to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC could result in a default under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes. In fiscal year 2013, we failed to timely file certain of our periodic reports with the SEC. While we are now in compliance with these reporting covenants, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all waivers related to any future filing delays or remedy any future events that could trigger an event of default under the credit agreement for our senior unsecured credit facility and the indenture for our senior unsecured notes. Our credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial ratio tests on an ongoing basis that may require us to take action and reduce debt or act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. We cannot be sure that we will be able to meet those tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under our credit facility. If an event of default under our credit facility or senior unsecured notes occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If such an acceleration of indebtedness were to arise from an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness. Any acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. We cannot be sure that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 23 Table of Contents Our reserves against disputed tax obligations may ultimately prove to be insufficient. Cardinal Health is before the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) Appeals office with respect to its fiscal years 2003 through 2007, and is under audit for fiscal years 2008 through 2010. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, Cardinal Health received an IRS Revenue Agent’s Report for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2003 through 2005 that included Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to transfer pricing arrangements between our foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among our subsidiaries, which we have appealed. The amount of additional tax proposed by the IRS in these notices totals $462 million, excluding penalties and interest. During the quarter ended June 30, 2013, we and Cardinal Health entered into a closing agreement with the IRS to effectively settle the matters related to the transfer of intellectual property among our subsidiaries. As part of the settlement, we agreed to pay $80 million ($69 million net of tax) which includes $26 million of interest. This closing agreement resolves $450 million of the original $462 million of additional tax proposed by the IRS related to fiscal years 2003 through 2005. In addition, during the quarter ended December 31, 2010 we received an IRS Revenue Agent’s Report for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 that included Notices of Proposed Adjustment related to transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries. We and Cardinal Health disagree with the IRS regarding its application of the United States Treasury regulations to the arrangements under review and the valuations underlying such adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them. We are currently before the IRS Appeals office for fiscal years 2003 through 2007, and continue to engage in substantive discussions related to these fiscal years. During the quarter ended September 30, 2011, the IRS commenced the tax audit for the fiscal years 2008 and 2009 and the short period July 1, 2009 through August 31, 2009 as part of Cardinal Health’s tax audit of its federal consolidated returns for fiscal years 2008 through 2010. During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, the IRS commenced the tax audit for the short period September 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010. Furthermore, during the quarter ended June 30, 2013, the IRS commenced the tax audit for fiscal year 2011. We have not received any Notices of Proposed Adjustment for these audit periods to date. We regularly review our tax reserves and make adjustments to our reserves when appropriate. Accounting for tax reserves involves complex and subjective estimates by management, which can change over time based on new information or changing events or circumstances, including events or circumstances outside of our control. Although we believe that we have provided appropriate tax reserves for any potential tax exposures, we may not be fully reserved and it is possible that we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our reserves. The tax matters agreement that we entered into with Cardinal Health in connection with the separation generally provides that the control of audit proceedings and payment of any additional liability related to our business is our responsibility. Any future change in estimate or obligation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See note 12 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K filed for a discussion of the Notices of Proposed Adjustment for our fiscal years ended 2003 through 2007 and our settlement agreement with the IRS. If there is a determination that the separation is taxable for United States federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the IRS ruling or tax opinions are incorrect or for any other reason, then Cardinal Health and its shareholders that are subject to United States federal income tax could incur significant United States federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. In connection with the separation, Cardinal Health received a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, among other things, the contribution and the distribution qualified as a transaction that is tax-free for United States federal income tax purposes under Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (“the Code”). In addition, Cardinal Health received opinions of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, co-counsel to Cardinal Health, to the effect that the contribution and the distribution qualified as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The ruling and opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Cardinal Health and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other 24 Table of Contents matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Cardinal Health and its shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct, have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Cardinal Health or us after the separation. If the separation is determined to be taxable for United States federal income tax purposes, Cardinal Health and its shareholders that are subject to United States federal income tax could incur significant United States federal income tax liabilities and we could incur significant liabilities. Our success depends on our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales, marketing and operations personnel. Experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including the intense competition for such highly skilled personnel, fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in our senior management, competitors’ hiring practices, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such personnel in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis, we may experience difficulty in implementing our business strategy, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the SEC, companies are required to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. As part of this process, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on management’s assessment and the effectiveness our internal control over financial reporting. Management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012, identified a material weakness related to our accounting for our dispensing sales-type leases. This material weakness could lead to a loss of investor confidence and could have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. As described in “Item 9A Controls and Procedures —Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” we have developed and implemented new control procedures regarding our accounting for sales-type leases, including the revised fair value estimation process for our leased assets, and we concluded that we had remediated this material weakness as of June 30, 2013. We will need to monitor and evaluate these procedures to ensure that they are operating effectively. We may be at risk for future material weaknesses, particularly if these new procedures do not operate effectively. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, which could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, lead to a loss of investor confidence and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Your percentage of ownership in us may be diluted in the future. As with any publicly-traded company, your percentage ownership in us may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees. 25 Table of Contents Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; and • domestic and foreign economic conditions. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting; • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; • the right of our board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; • a provision that stockholders may only remove directors with cause; • the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and • the requirement that stockholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock are required to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws relating to the number, term and election of our directors, the filling of board vacancies, stockholder notice procedures and the calling of special meetings of stockholders. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents 