Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as affect an investment in our shares. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. Demand for drilling services depends on a variety of economic and political factors and the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration and development and production markets worldwide. Commodity prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, may significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity since our clients’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including: • laws and regulations related to environmental or energy security matters, including those addressing alternative energy sources and the risks of global climate change; • the political environment of oil-producing regions, including uncertainty or instability resulting from civil disorder, an outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities or acts of war or terrorism; • worldwide demand for oil and gas, which is impacted by changes in the rate of economic growth in the global economy; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; 8 Table of Contents • the laws and regulations of governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves or speculation regarding future laws or regulations; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; • available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity; • the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; • adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and monsoons) and seas; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • tax laws, regulations and policies; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; and • the availability of, and access to, suitable locations from which our customers can produce hydrocarbons. Demand for our drilling services may decrease due to events beyond our control and some of our customers could seek to cancel, terminate or renegotiate their contracts. Our business could be impacted by events beyond our control including changes in our customers’ drilling programs or budgets or their liquidity (including access to capital), changes in, or prolonged reductions of, prices for oil and gas, or shifts in the relative strength of various geographic drilling markets brought on by economic slowdown, or regional or worldwide recession, any of which could result in deterioration in demand for our drilling services. In addition, our customers may cancel drilling contracts or letter agreements or letters of intent for drilling contracts, or exercise early termination rights found in some of our drilling contracts or available under local law, for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. Depending upon market conditions, our customers may also seek renegotiation of firm drilling contracts to reduce their obligations. If the level of demand for our drilling services or conditions in the offshore contract drilling industry declines, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain contracts for our uncontracted newbuilds. We have a number of customer contracts that will expire in 2013 and 2014. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions and our customers. Also, of the units we currently have under construction as part of our newbuild program, two of the ultra-deepwater drillships and two of the heavy-duty, harsh environment jackups are being constructed without customer contracts. We will attempt to secure contracts for these units prior to their completion. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for our newbuilds or the rigs under contracts that have expired or been terminated, and the dayrates under any new contracts may be below, perhaps substantially below, the existing dayrates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We may continue speculative building, even in the absence of contracts for our units already under construction. Our global operations involve additional risks. We operate in various regions throughout the world that may expose us to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: • terrorist acts, war, revolution and civil disturbances; • seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; • monetary policies, government debt downgrades and potential defaults, and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • the inability to repatriate income or capital; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • piracy; • import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers and other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; • regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; and • changing taxation policies. 9 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to: • the importing, exporting, equipping and operation of drilling units; • repatriation of foreign earnings; • currency exchange controls; • oil and gas exploration and development; • taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and • use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. Our ability to do business in a number of jurisdictions is subject to maintaining required licenses and permits and complying with applicable laws and regulations. For example, as of December 31, 2012, our two rigs operating in Nigeria were operating under temporary import permits and the Department of Petroleum Resources had not yet issued our Nigerian subsidiary a permit to operate as an oil industry service company or licenses to operate the two rigs for the year 2013. It is customary in Nigeria that permits and licenses are issued well into the year to which they pertain and, to date, we have been successful in obtaining new, or extending existing, temporary import permits and other permits and licenses. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new permits or further extensions of permits necessary to continue the operation of our rigs in Nigeria. If we cannot obtain a new permit or an extension necessary to continue operations of any rig, we may need to cease operations under the drilling contract for such rig and relocate such rig from Nigerian waters. We cannot predict what impact these events may have on any such contract or our business in Nigeria, and we could face additional fines and sanctions in Nigeria. Furthermore, we cannot predict what changes, if any, relating to temporary import permit policies and procedures may be established or implemented in Nigeria in the future, or how any such changes may impact our business there. For additional information regarding our completed internal investigation of our Nigerian operations and the status of our temporary import permits in Nigeria, see “Part II Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16 — Commitments and Contingencies.” Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries where we operate, including Nigeria, may negatively impact our operations in those countries and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2010 the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development Bill was signed into law. The law is designed to create Nigerian content in operations and transactions within the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The law sets forth certain requirements for asset ownership and the utilization of Nigerian human resources and goods and services in oil and gas projects and creates a Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board to implement and monitor the law and develop regulations pursuant to the law. The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board has indicated that it will require all non-Nigerian offshore drilling companies to reorganize their local operations to include Nigerian indigenous minority interests in the operating assets and to obtain the approval of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board for future work in Nigeria. The law also establishes a Nigerian Content Development Fund to fund the implementation of the law, and requires that 1 percent of the value of every contract awarded in the Nigerian oil and gas industry be paid into the fund. We continue to closely monitor the implementation of the law and we are in the process of reviewing our structural and strategic alternatives and the associated cost as the law continues to be applied. We cannot predict what impact the law will ultimately have on the drilling industry and our future operations in Nigeria, but the effect on our operations and profitability in the region could be significant. In addition, other governmental actions, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil price volatility. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil companies, which may continue. In addition, some governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete and our results of operations. The U.S. government’s regulations and permitting process could have a prolonged and material adverse impact on our U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations. Subsequent to the April 2010 fire and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon, a competitor’s drilling rig in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, U.S. governmental authorities implemented a moratorium on and suspension of specified types of drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In October 2010, the U.S. government lifted the moratorium following adoption of new regulations including a drilling safety rule and a workplace safety rule, each of which imposed multiple obligations relating to offshore drilling operations. These obligations relate to, among other things; additional certifications and verifications relating to compliance with applicable regulations, compatibility of blowout preventers with drilling rigs and well design, third-party inspections and design review of blowout preventers, testing of casing installations, minimum requirements for personnel operating blowout preventers, training in deepwater well control and mandates of maintenance inspections. BSEE’s predecessor agency also proposed to further strengthen these regulations in September 2011. These additional regulations led to additional costs and increased downtime in our U.S. Gulf of Mexico fleet. 10 Table of Contents The U.S. government mandated that before beginning a well in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico an operator must: (i) demonstrate that containment resources are available promptly in the event of a deepwater blowout, (ii) have the chief executive officer of the operator seeking to perform deepwater drilling certify that the operator has complied with all applicable regulations and (iii) allow BSEE to conduct inspections of such deepwater drilling operation for compliance with the applicable regulations. Our customers and other operators struggled to implement these new regulations, which resulted in increased downtime and decreased rates for a number of our contracted units when these regulations were instituted. While it appears that operators have become accustomed to these regulations, we cannot predict whether the permitting will continue at the current rate. Increased costs for our customers’ operations and permitting delays could negatively impact their planned or future exploration and development activities, which could result in reduced demand for our services. Governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, may add to our costs or limit our drilling activity. Our business is affected by public policy and laws and regulations relating to the energy industry and the environment in the geographic areas where we operate. The drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that for economic, environmental or other policy reasons curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. Governments in some foreign countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. There is increasing attention in the United States and worldwide concerning the issue of climate change and the effect of greenhouse gases. Our operations are also subject to numerous laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations that result in the curtailment of exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas could materially and adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or imposing materially increased costs. As a result, the application of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by increasing our cost of doing business, discouraging our customers from drilling for hydrocarbons or subjecting us to liability. For example, we, as an operator of mobile offshore drilling units in navigable U.S. waters and certain offshore areas, including the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf, are liable for damages and for the cost of removing oil spills for which we may be held responsible, subject to certain limitations. Our operations may involve the use or handling of materials that are classified as environmentally hazardous. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent and in certain circumstances impose “strict liability”, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. In November 2012, the U.S. Coast Guard in Alaska conducted an inspection of our drillship, the Noble Discoverer, and cited a number of deficiencies that needed to be remediated, including issues relating to the main propulsion and safety management system. We began an internal investigation in conjunction with the Coast Guard inspection, and the Coast Guard began their own investigation. We reported certain potential violations of applicable law to the Coast Guard as a result of our internal investigation. These related to what we believe were certain unauthorized disposals of collected deck and sea water from the Noble Discoverer and potential record-keeping issues with the oil record books for the Noble Discoverer and other rigs. The Coast Guard has referred the Noble Discoverer matter to the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) for further investigation. For additional information regarding these actions relating to the Alaska investigation, see “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 16— Commitments and Contingencies.” 11 Table of Contents Worldwide instability in the financial and credit sectors and economic recession could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Worldwide instability in the financial and credit sectors could reduce the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to another global economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a worldwide recession, combined with lower prices for oil and gas, would reduce worldwide demand for energy and demand for drilling services. If demand for drilling services declines again, we could experience a decline in dayrates for new contracts and a slowing in the pace of new contract activity. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices or material impairment of our customers’ cash flow or liquidity, including their access to capital, could result in lower levels of exploration, development and production activity. Lower levels of exploration activity could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our drilling services, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The financial situation may also adversely affect the ability of shipyards to meet scheduled deliveries of our newbuilds and our ability to renew our fleet through new vessel construction projects and conversion projects. We are substantially dependent on several of our customers including Shell and Petrobras, and the loss of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We estimate Shell and Petrobras represented approximately 61 percent and 14 percent, respectively, of our backlog at December 31, 2012 and revenues from Shell and Petrobras accounted for approximately 32 percent and 14 percent, respectively, of our total operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. This concentration of customers increases the risks associated with any possible termination or nonperformance of contracts in addition to our exposure to credit risk. If either of these customers were to terminate or fail to perform their obligations under their contracts and we were not able to find other customers for the affected drilling units promptly, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Construction, conversion or upgrades of rigs are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We currently have multiple new construction and conversion projects underway and we may undertake additional projects in the future. In addition, we make significant upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures to our fleet from time to time, particularly as our rigs become older. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. Our customers may also require certain shipyard reliability upgrade projects for our drillships. These projects and other efforts of this type are subject to risks of cost overruns or delays inherent in any large construction project as a result of numerous factors, including the following: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • work stoppages and labor disputes; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • local customs strikes or related work slowdowns that could delay importation of equipment or materials; • weather interferences; • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or approvals or in meeting permit or approval conditions; • design and engineering problems; • inadequate regulatory support infrastructure in the local jurisdiction; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • client acceptance delays; 12 Table of Contents • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • delays in, or inability to obtain, access to funding; • shipyard availability, failures and difficulties, including as a result of financial problems of shipyards or their subcontractors; and • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers. The failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or the inability to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications, may result in loss of revenues, penalties, or delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract or the recognition of an asset impairment. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. We could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws and our failure to comply with the terms of our settlement agreements with the DOJ and SEC. We operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and our code of business conduct and ethics. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”) and similar laws in other countries. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Further, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. In 2007, we began an internal investigation of the legality under the FCPA of certain activities in Nigeria. In November 2010, we finalized settlements of this matter with each of the SEC and the DOJ. Under the settlements with the DOJ and SEC, we agreed to, among other things, pay certain fines and interest and disgorge certain profits, cooperate with the DOJ, comply with the FCPA, comply with certain self-reporting and annual reporting obligations and comply with an injunction restraining us from violating the anti-bribery, books and records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA. Our ability to comply with the terms of the settlements is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to manage our agents and supervise, train and retain competent employees, and the efforts of our employees to comply with applicable law and our code of business conduct and ethics. Also, in January 2011, the Nigerian Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Nigerian Attorney General Office initiated an investigation into these same activities. A subsidiary of Noble-Swiss resolved this matter through the execution of a non-prosecution agreement dated January 28, 2011. Pursuant to this agreement, the subsidiary paid $2.5 million to resolve all charges and claims of the Nigerian government. Any additional investigation by these or other agencies could damage our reputation and result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, resolving any additional investigations could be expensive and consume significant time and attention of our senior management. For instance, in February 2012, the SEC charged one current and two former employees of ours with violating the FCPA in connection with the events that were the subject of the internal investigations we began in 2007, as described above. We do not believe that the SEC pleadings against these individuals introduce material facts that were not addressed in our internal investigation, which we resolved with the SEC and the DOJ in November 2010. We are not a party to the SEC proceedings against these individuals, and we do not believe the charges against the individuals will result in fines, sanctions or civil or criminal penalties against us. However, these actions may consume the attention of management and damage our reputation. Possible changes in tax laws could affect us and our shareholders. We operate through various subsidiaries in numerous countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in Switzerland, the U.S. or jurisdictions in which we or any of our subsidiaries operate or are incorporated. 13 Table of Contents Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. If these laws, treaties or regulations change or other taxing authorities do not agree with our assessment of the effects of such laws, treaties and regulations, this could have a material adverse effect on us, including the imposition of a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings or a reclassification of the tax impact of our significant corporate restructuring transactions. In addition, the manner in which our shareholders are taxed on distributions on, and dispositions of, our shares could be affected by changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in Switzerland, the U.S. or other jurisdictions in which our shareholders are resident. Any such changes could result in increased taxes for our shareholders and affect the trading price of our shares. Our business involves numerous operating hazards. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling business, including blowouts, fires and collisions or groundings of offshore equipment, and damage or loss from adverse weather and seas. These hazards could cause personal injury or loss of life, suspend drilling operations or seriously damage or destroy the property and equipment involved, result in claims by employees, customers or third parties and, in addition to causing environmental damage, could cause substantial damage to oil and natural gas producing formations or facilities. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, and failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services, or personnel shortages. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to damage claims by oil and gas companies. The contract drilling industry is a highly competitive and cyclical business with intense price competition. If we are unable to compete successfully, our profitability may be reduced. The offshore contract drilling industry is a highly competitive and cyclical business characterized by high capital and maintenance costs. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Intense price competition, rig availability, location and suitability, experience of the workforce, efficiency, safety performance record, technical capability and condition of equipment, operating integrity, reputation, industry standing and client relations are all factors in determining which contractor is awarded a job. Mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies from time to time may reduce the number of available clients, resulting in increased price competition. Our industry has historically been cyclical. There have been periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates, followed by periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and may result in some of our rigs being idle for long periods of time. Prolonged periods of low utilization and low dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. For example, in 2012 our submersible rig fleet, consisting of two cold stacked rigs, was partially impaired due to the declining market outlook for drilling services for this rig type. We estimated the fair value of the rigs based on the salvage value of the rigs and a recent transaction involving a similar unit owned by a peer company (Level 2 fair value measurement). Based on these estimates, we recognized a charge of approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase in supply created by the number and types of rigs being built, as well as changes in our competitors’ drilling rig fleets, could intensify price competition and require higher capital investment to keep our rigs competitive. In addition, the supply attributable to newbuild rigs, especially those being built on speculation, could cause a reduction in future dayrates. We are experiencing competition from newbuild jackups that are scheduled to enter the market in 2013 and beyond. The entry of these newbuild jackups into the market may result in lower dayrates for jackups than currently expected. Similarly, there are a number of deepwater newbuilds that are scheduled to enter the market over the next several years, which could also adversely affect the dayrates for these units. 14 Table of Contents As a result of our significant cash flow needs, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness, or delay or cancel discretionary capital expenditures. Our currently anticipated cash flow needs, both in the short-term and long-term, may include the following: • committed capital expenditures, including expenditures for newbuild projects currently underway; • normal recurring operating expenses; • discretionary capital expenditures, including various capital upgrades; • payments of dividends; and • repayment of maturing debt. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may need funding beyond the amount available to us from cash generated by our operations, cash on hand and borrowings under our existing bank credit facilities and commercial paper program. We may raise such additional capital in a number of ways, including accessing capital markets, obtaining additional lines of credit or disposing of assets. However, we can provide no assurance that any of these options will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to obtain financing or to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional capital through debt financings, incurring additional indebtedness may significantly increase our interest expense and may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund working capital needs, because we will require additional funds to service our outstanding indebtedness. We may delay or cancel discretionary capital expenditures, which could have certain adverse consequences including delaying upgrades or equipment purchases that could make the affected rigs less competitive, adversely affect customer relationships and negatively impact our ability to contract such rigs. We may have difficulty obtaining or maintaining insurance in the future and our insurance coverage and contractual indemnity rights may not protect us against all of the risks and hazards we face. We generally identify the operational hazards for which we will procure insurance coverage based on the likelihood of loss, the potential magnitude of loss, the cost of coverage, the requirements of our customer contracts and applicable legal requirements. We do not procure insurance coverage for all of the potential risks and hazards we may face. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain insurance against all of the risks and hazards we face or that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance at rates and with deductibles or retention amounts that we consider commercially reasonable. Although we maintain what we believe to be an appropriate level of insurance covering hazards and risks we currently encounter during our operations, we do not insure against all possible hazards and risks. Furthermore, our insurance carriers may interpret our insurance policies such that they do not cover losses for which we make claims. Our insurance policies may also have exclusions of coverage for some losses. Uninsured exposures may include expatriate activities prohibited by U.S. laws, radiation hazards, certain loss or damage to property onboard our rigs and losses relating to shore-based terrorist acts or strikes. In addition, the damage sustained to offshore oil and gas assets as a result of hurricanes in recent years has negatively impacted the energy insurance market, resulting in more restrictive and expensive coverage for U.S. named windstorm perils. Accordingly, we have elected to significantly reduce the named windstorm insurance on our rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Presently, we insure the Noble Jim Thompson, Noble Amos Runner and Noble Driller for “total loss only” when caused by a named windstorm. Our customer assumes the risk of loss on the Noble Bully I due to a named windstorm event up to $450 million per occurrence pursuant to the terms of the drilling contract relating to such vessel, provided that we are responsible for the first $25 million per occurrence for such named windstorm events. The remaining rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are self-insured for named windstorm perils. Our rigs located in the Mexico portion of the Gulf of Mexico remain covered by commercial insurance for windstorm damage. If one or more future significant weather-related events occur in the Gulf of Mexico, or in any other geographic area in which we operate, we may experience increases in insurance costs, additional coverage restrictions or unavailability of certain insurance products. 15 Table of Contents Under our drilling contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property is customarily assigned on a “knock-for-knock” basis, which means that we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property, irrespective of the fault or negligence of the party indemnified. Although our drilling contracts generally provide for indemnification from our customers for certain liabilities, including liabilities resulting from pollution or contamination originating below the surface of the water, enforcement of these contractual rights to indemnity may be limited by public policy and other considerations and, in any event, may not adequately cover our losses from such incidents. There can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify us will necessarily be in a financial position to do so. Although we maintain insurance in the geographic areas in which we operate, pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Our insurance policies may not adequately cover our losses or may have exclusions of coverage for some losses. We do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks, including loss of hire insurance on most of the rigs in our fleet. Uninsured exposures may include expatriate activities prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations, radiation hazards, certain loss or damage to property onboard our rigs and losses relating to shore-based terrorist acts or strikes. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel or an increase in personnel costs could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our drilling units. As the demand for drilling services and the size of the worldwide industry fleet increases, shortages of qualified personnel have occurred from time to time. These shortages could result in our loss of qualified personnel to competitors, impair our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for our new or existing drilling units, impair the timeliness and quality of our work and create upward pressure on personnel costs, any of which could adversely affect our operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses to us. We may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. We are subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on us. We are, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, environmental claims or proceedings, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation. Litigation may have an adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, costs of attorneys, the allocation of management’s time and attention, and other factors. Forward-Looking Statements This report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report regarding the Frontier transaction and integration, contract backlog, fleet status, our financial position, business strategy, timing or results of acquisitions or dispositions, backlog, completion and acceptance of our newbuild rigs, contract commitments, dayrates, contract commencements, extension or renewals, contract tenders, the outcome of any dispute, litigation or investigation, plans and objectives of management for future operations, foreign currency requirements, results of joint ventures, indemnity and other contract claims, construction of rigs, industry conditions including the effect of disruptions of drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, access to financing, impact of competition, governmental regulations and permitting, availability of labor, worldwide economic conditions, taxes and tax rates, indebtedness covenant compliance, and timing for compliance with any new regulations are forward-looking statements. When used in this 16 Table of Contents report, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “should” and similar expressions are intended to be among the statements that identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove to be correct. These factors include those described in “Risk Factors” above, or in our other SEC filings, among others. Such risks and uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, we cannot predict the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. You should consider these risks when you are evaluating us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 