Risk Factors—Risks related to Doing Business in China—There are significant uncertainties under the Corporate Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the CIT Law, regarding our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities, such as tax on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries. The CIT Law also contains uncertainties regarding possible PRC withholding tax on any dividends we pay to our overseas corporate shareholders and gains realized from the transfer of our shares by our overseas corporate shareholders.” Should such dividends be subject to PRC withholding tax or be subject to the usual CIT Law withholding tax rate of 10% rather than the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5% provided under the China-HK Tax Arrangement, the amount of cash available to us for our cash needs, including for the payment of dividends to our shareholders or ADS holders, would be reduced. Furthermore, we control our principal VIEs Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, Shenzhen 7Road and Wuhan Baina Information through contractual arrangements rather than equity ownership. See Item 7 “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” To the extent that there is any distributable profit in Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, Shenzhen 7Road or Wuhan Baina Information, it may be difficult for these entities to distribute such profit to AmazGame, Gamespace, ICE Information, 7Road Technology or Beijing Baina Technology, which may further limit the amount that these PRC subsidiaries can distribute to us. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar, and fluctuations in the value of the RMB may have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ investment. Our reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. In July 2005, China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our U.S. Dollar financial statements will decline in value. On May 19, 2007, the PBOC announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMB’s daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMB’s value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it has decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate, and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMB’s exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. On April 16, 2012, the PBOC enlarged the floating band of RMB’s trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.5% to 1% around the middle rate released by the China Foreign Exchange Trade System each day. In February 2014, the center point of the currency’s official trading band hit 6.1146, representing appreciation of more than 11.7% since June 19, 2010. On March 17, 2014, the PBOC announced a policy to further expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market to 2%. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. Dollars. In addition, our proceeds from overseas financings and from overseas game operations will decrease in value if we choose not to or are unable to convert the proceeds into RMB and the RMB appreciates against the U.S. dollar, which may reduce the value of a shareholder’s investment in our ADSs. 31 Table of Contents Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In July 2014, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration Over the Overseas Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment by Domestic Residents Via Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 37, which replaced Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75. Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, referred to in Circular 37 as a “special purpose vehicle” for the purpose of holding domestic or offshore assets or interests. Circular 37 further requires amendment to a PRC resident’s registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as an increase or decrease in the capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. Under these regulations, PRC residents’ failure to comply with specified registration procedures may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity, including restrictions on its ability to contribute additional capital to its PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the SAFE registration requirements could result in penalties under PRC law for evasion of foreign exchange regulations. As Circular 37 is newly-issued, it is unclear how these regulations will be interpreted and implemented. In addition, different local SAFE branches may have different views and procedures as to the interpretation and implementation of the SAFE regulations, and it may be difficult for our ultimate shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents to provide sufficient supporting documents required by the SAFE or to complete the required registration with the SAFE in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or is controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on the ability of AmazGame, Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology to pay dividends or make distributions to us and on our ability to increase our investment in AmazGame, Gamespace, Shanghai ICE, 7Road Technology and Beijing Baina Technology. Under Circular 37, if a non-listed special purpose vehicle uses its own equity or share option to grant equity incentive awards to directors, supervisors, members of senior management or employees directly employed by a domestic enterprise that is directly or indirectly controlled by such special purpose vehicle, or with which such employee has established an employment relationship, any of such directors, supervisors, members of senior management or employees who is a PRC resident should, prior to exercising their rights, file an application with the SAFE for foreign exchange registration with respect to such special purpose vehicle. However, in practice, different local SAFE branches may have different views and procedures as to the interpretation and implementation of the SAFE regulations and, since Circular 37 was the first regulation to regulate the foreign exchange registration of a non-listed special purpose vehicle’s equity incentive granted to PRC residents, there remains uncertainty with respect to its implementation. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to transfer funds we hold overseas to our subsidiaries and VIEs in the PRC, which may adversely affect our business expansion, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into RMB to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies. The use of such RMB capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used for purposes within the approved business scope. In addition, to strengthen Circular 142, on November 16, 2011 the SAFE promulgated the Circular on Further Clarifying and Regulating Relevant Issues Concerning the Administration of Foreign Exchange under Capital Account, or Circular 45, which prohibits a foreign invested company from converting its registered capital in foreign exchange currency into RMB for the purpose of making domestic equity investments, granting entrusted loans, repaying inter-company loans, and repaying bank loans that have been transferred to a third-party. Violations of Circular 142 or related regulations can result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. Circular 142 and related regulations may significantly limit our ability to transfer funds we hold overseas to our VIEs in the PRC through our subsidiaries in the PRC, which may adversely affect our business expansion, and we may not be able to convert such funds into RMB to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. 32 Table of Contents We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee share incentives granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. Under the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control issued by the PBOC and related implementation rules issued by the SAFE, all foreign exchange transactions involving an employee share incentive plan, share option plan or similar plan participated in by PRC citizens may be conducted only with the approval of the SAFE. Under the Notice of Issues Related to the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the Offshore Share Incentives Rules, issued by the SAFE on February 15, 2012, PRC citizens who are granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required to register with the SAFE or its authorized branch and to comply with a series of other requirements. The Offshore Share Incentives Rule also provides procedures for registration of incentive plans, the opening and use of special accounts for the purpose of participation in incentive plans, and the remittance of funds for exercising share options and gains realized from such exercises and sales of such options or the underlying shares, both outside and inside the PRC. We, and any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who have been granted share options, restricted share units or restricted shares, are subject to the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, the related implementation rules issued by the SAFE, and the Offshore Share Incentives Rule. If we, or any of our PRC employees or members of our board of directors who receive or hold share options, restricted share units or restricted shares, fail to comply with these registration and other procedural requirements, we may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. The enforcement of the PRC Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business. The Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted the Labor Contract Law, or the Labor Contract Law. The Labor Contract Law introduced specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, part-time employment, probationary periods, consultation with labor unions and employee assemblies, employment without a written contract, dismissal of employees, severance, and collective bargaining to enhance previous PRC labor law. Under the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obligated to sign an unlimited-term labor contract with any employee who has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Further, if an employee requests or agrees to renew a fixed-term labor contract that has already been entered into twice consecutively, the resulting contract, with certain exceptions, must have an unlimited term, subject to certain exceptions. With certain exceptions, an employer must pay severance to an employee where a labor contract is terminated or expires. In addition, the PRC governmental authorities have continued to introduce various new labor-related regulations since the effectiveness of the Labor Contract Law in 2008. For example, there are regulations which require that annual leave ranging from five to 15 days be made available to employees and that employees be compensated for any unused annual leave days at a rate of three times their daily salary, subject to certain exceptions. Under the PRC Social Insurance Law and the Administrative Measures on Housing Fund, employees are required to participate in pension insurance, work-related injury insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity insurance and housing funds and employers are required, together with their employees or separately, to pay the social insurance premiums and housing funds for their employees. These laws designed to enhance labor protection tend to increase our labor costs. In addition, as the interpretation and implementation of these regulations are still evolving, our employment practices may not be at all times be deemed in compliance with the regulations. As a result, we could be subject to penalties or incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations. Risks Related to Our Class A Ordinary Shares and ADSs We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, our shareholders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law, Cap 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. 33 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside the United States. A substantial portion of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, all of our directors and executive officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for holders of our ADSs to enforce in Cayman Islands courts or PRC courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments. Our operating results for a particular period could fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, resulting in a decrease in the price of our ADSs. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of factors beyond our control, such as the slowdown in China’s economic growth that occurred between the first quarter of 2010 and third quarter of 2012 and during 2014, caused in part by measures adopted by the Chinese government intended to slow such growth and to temper real estate prices and inflation, and the significant instability recently experienced in the worldwide economy, with growth in the United States slowing, and the European Community facing disruptions as a result of crises in the economies of Greece and Spain, among other countries, and such factors may be difficult to predict for any given period. Other factors also could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results, including the timing and success of our new game launches, our costs of developing and launching new games and software, and the level of user activity of our games and software in China during particular fiscal quarters. If our operating results for any period fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or research analysts, the price of our ADSs is likely to decrease. Press reports in 2011 concerning possible increased scrutiny by Chinese authorities of the VIE structure used by us and various other Chinese companies publicly-traded in the United States appear to have created concern at the time among investors and to have caused the price of the ADSs of various Chinese companies, including us, that are publicly traded in the United States to drop, and similar reports in the future could have a similar adverse effect on the price of our ADSs In 2011 various prominent western news outlets reported that the MOFCOM and the CSRC, among other Chinese regulatory authorities, might be considering increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation of Chinese companies that use VIE structures, such as we do, as a means of complying with Chinese laws restricting foreign ownership of certain businesses in China, including online game businesses such as ours. Some of such news reports also sought to draw a connection between accounting issues at certain Chinese companies, which were widely reported at the time, and the use of VIE structures. Such news reports appear to have had the effect of causing significant drops at the time in the market prices of the shares of many Chinese companies, including us. It is possible that in the future there will be increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation by Chinese regulatory authorities of Chinese companies, including us, that use VIE structures. See “If the PRC government determines that the VIE structure for operating our business does not comply with applicable PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online game industry and the online advertisement industry, we could face severe penalties.” In addition, while we are not aware of any causal connection between the reported accounting scandals and the use of VIE structures, it is possible that holders or potential purchasers of our ADSs will believe that such a connection exists. Any of such circumstances could lead to further loss of investor confidence in Chinese companies and cause fluctuations in the market prices of our ADSs and, if such prices were to drop sharply, could subject us to shareholder litigation, which could cause the price for our shares to drop further. Registered public accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which deprives us and our investors of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies whose shares are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards applicable to auditors. Our independent registered public accounting firm is located in, and organized under the laws of, the PRC, which is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB, notwithstanding the requirements of U.S. law, is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. 34 Table of Contents This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from fully evaluating audits and quality control procedures of our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we and investors in our common stock are deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our stock to lose confidence in our audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ audit work papers with respect to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, the ALJ presiding over the matter rendered an initial decision that each of the firms had violated the SEC’s rules of practice by failing to produce audit workpapers to the SEC. The initial decision censured each of the firms and barred them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms appealed the ALJ’s initial decision to the SEC. The ALJ’s decision does not take effect unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. On February 6, 2015, the four China-based accounting firms each agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit U.S.-listed companies. The settlement required the firms to follow detailed procedures and to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC. If future document productions fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. While we cannot predict if the SEC will further review the four China-based accounting firms’ compliance with specified criteria or if the results of such a review would result in the SEC imposing penalties such as suspensions or restarting the administrative proceedings, if the accounting firms are subject to additional remedial measures, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ADSs from NASDAQ or the termination of the registration of our ADSs and Class A ordinary shares under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Listing Rules and as a result we are entitled to, and do, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. We also have invoked one of the “home country practice” exceptions to the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rules that are available to foreign private issuers such as us, and we may invoke additional such exceptions in the future. Because Sohu owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our ordinary shares, we are a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. We rely on certain exemptions that are available to controlled companies from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the following, which we do not intend to meet voluntarily: • that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and compensation committee. In November 2014 our board of directors approved and we implemented an increase in the number of Class A ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our 2014 Share Incentive Plan without shareholder approval, which would otherwise have been required by the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rules, by invoking one of the “home country” exceptions from certain of the NASDAQ Listing Rules that are available to foreign private issuers such as us, and in the future we may invoke additional home country exceptions from the NASDAQ Listing Rules’ corporate governance requirements. As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions and of a “home country” exception to these requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rules, holders of our ADSs do not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements. 35 Table of Contents The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from April 2, 2009, the first day of trading of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, until December 31, 2014, the trading price of our ADSs ranged from $17.00 to $52.00 per ADS, and the closing sale price on December 31, 2014 was $27.36 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of competitive developments, including new games by our competitors; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • failure of our quarterly financial and operating results to meet market expectations or failure to meet our previously announced guidance; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other Internet or online game companies; • additions or departures of our executive officers and other key personnel; • announcements regarding intellectual property litigation (or potential litigation) involving us or any of our directors and officers; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the RMB; • release or expiration of transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular industries or companies. Such market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. Our ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems it expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the Deposit Agreement, or for any other reason. Holders of ADSs have limited voting rights and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the Deposit Agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs may instruct the depositary how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Holders may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that direct holders of ADSs, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, due to the different voting powers attached to the two classes of our ordinary shares, our controlling shareholder, Sohu, which holds our Class B ordinary shares, controls 95.4% of the total voting power of our ordinary shares as the date of this report. As a result, the ability of holders of our ADSs to affect the outcome of any matter subject to shareholder vote is very limited. ADS holders’ right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings and ADS holders may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to such holders. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to ADS holders in the United States unless we register the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from registration requirements is available. Also, under the Deposit Agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to ADS holders unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. 36 Table of Contents In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares such holders’ ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them, or that the distribution requires certain governmental approval, such as requirement for registration or approval for currency conversion. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute that property and ADSs holders will not receive that distribution. Holders of our ADSs and holders of our Class A ordinary shares will experience dilution when additional Class A ordinary shares are issued in settlement of restricted share units or upon exercise of options. Holders of our ADSs and holders of our Class A ordinary shares will experience dilution to the extent that additional Class A ordinary shares are issued upon settlement of restricted share units or exercise of outstanding options that we may grant from time to time. As of the date of this report, there were outstanding 208,986 Class A restricted share units, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class A ordinary share, and outstanding options for the purchase of 2,400,000 Class A ordinary shares at a nominal price. We may need additional capital and may sell additional ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of the date of this report, there were 35,248,012 of our Class A ordinary shares and 70,250,000 of our Class B ordinary shares outstanding. As of the date of this report, there were outstanding 208,986 Class A restricted share units, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class A ordinary share, and outstanding options for the purchase of 2,400,000 Class A ordinary shares at a nominal price. In addition, we may grant or sell additional options, restricted shares or other share-based awards in the future under our share incentive plan to our management, employees and other persons, the settlement and sale of which may further dilute our shares and drive down the price of our ADSs. We might be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. We expect that we will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending November 30, 2014. Our expectation is based on our current and anticipated operations and composition of our earnings and assets (including goodwill) for the 2014 taxable year, including the current and expected valuation of our assets based on the market price of our ADSs. However, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold following this annual report, a substantial amount of cash and cash equivalents, and the value of our other assets may be based in part on the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate in the future (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of Internet and online game companies historically have been especially volatile). A drop in the market price of our ADSs and an associated decrease in the value of our goodwill would cause a reduction in the value of our non-passive assets for purposes of the asset test. Accordingly, we could become a PFIC if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents. Furthermore, it is not entirely clear how the contractual arrangements between us and our consolidated variable interest entities will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules. In addition, our actual PFIC status for any taxable year will not be determinable until the close of such taxable year. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. PFIC status depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets (including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each regarded subsidiary in which we own, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by value) of the equity interest) from time to time. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States holder held an ADS or a Class A ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. holder. See “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company” in Item 10 of this annual report. 37 Table of Contents 