Risk Factors—Risks related to Doing Business in China—There are significant uncertainties under the new Corporate Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the New CIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, regarding our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities, such on tax on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries. The New CIT Law also contains uncertainties regarding possible PRC withholding tax on dividends we pay to our overseas shareholders and gains realized from the transfer of our shares by our overseas shareholders” in Item 3. Should such dividends be subject to PRC withholding tax or be subject to the usual New CIT Law withholding tax rate of 10% rather than the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5% provided under the China-HK Tax Arrangement, the amount of cash available to us for our cash needs, including for the payment of dividends to our shareholders or ADS holders, would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we control our operating entities in China, Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, through contractual arrangements rather than equity ownership. AmazGame entered into a Technology Development and Support Agreement and an Operation and Maintenance Agreement with Gamease, pursuant to which Gamease will pay AmazGame for the services AmazGame provides to Gamease. Gamespace entered into a Technology Development and Support Agreement and an Operation and Maintenance Agreement with Guanyou Gamespace, pursuant to which Guanyou Gamespace will pay Gamespace for the services Gamespace provides to Guanyou Gamespace. ICE Information entered into an Exclusive Business Cooperation Agreement, an Exclusive Technology Consulting and Service Agreement and a Business Operation Agreement with Shanghai ICE, pursuant to which Shanghai ICE will pay ICE Information for the services ICE Information provides to Shanghai ICE. See “Related Party Transactions” in Item 7. To the extent that there is any distributable profit in Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE, it may be difficult for Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace or Shanghai ICE to distribute such profit to AmazGame, Gamespace or ICE Information, which may further limit the amount that AmazGame, Gamespace or ICE Information can distribute to us. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our shareholders’ investment. The change in value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 21.3% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2009. Provisions on Administration of Foreign Exchange, as amended in August 2008, further changed China’s exchange regime to a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it had decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMB’s exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. Shortly after this announcement, the center point of the currency’s official trading band broke through the 6.8 barrier to hit 6.7968 to the U.S. dollar, and hit 6.2937 on February 10, 2012, which is the highest center point of the past five years. In 2010 and 2011, the appreciation of RMB against U.S. dollar reached 3.4% and 5% in total, respectively. As substantially all of our costs and expenses are denominated in RMB, the revision in exchange rate policy effected in July 2005 has increased, and potential future revisions could further increase, our costs and expenses in U.S. dollar terms. Our proceeds from overseas financings, such as our initial public offering, and from overseas games operations will decrease in value if we choose not to or are unable to convert the proceeds into RMB and the RMB appreciates against the U.S. dollar, which may reduce the value of a shareholder’s investment in our ADSs. 42 Table of Contents Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In October 2005, SAFE promulgated Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, SAFE has further issued a series of implementation guidance, including the most recent Notice of SAFE on Printing and Distributing the Implementing Rules for the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 19, which came into effect on July 1, 2011. These regulations state that if PRC residents use assets of, or equity interests in, their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets of, or equity interests in, their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under these regulations, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. Prior to our initial public offering, we requested that our shareholders who were PRC residents make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under Circular 75 and other related rules. We attempt to comply with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 or other related rules. In addition, Circular 19 provides for certain new requirements as to registration procedures. For example, to apply for registration of a PRC resident’s investment in an offshore special purpose vehicle, the PRC resident must submit supporting documents evidencing such resident’s equity interest in the assets or equities of the PRC company. It is still uncertain how the new guidance will be interpreted and implemented and it may be difficult for our ultimate shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents to provide sufficient supporting documents required by SAFE or to complete the required registration with SAFE in a timely manner, or at all. Any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on the ability of AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE Information to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in AmazGame, Gamespace and ICE Information. 43 Table of Contents SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, our VIEs in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into RMB to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in RMB converted from foreign currencies. The use of such RMB capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE through our subsidiaries in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Gamease, Guanyou Gamespace and Shanghai ICE, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into RMB to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On December 25, 2006, the PBOC issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007, which both have taken effect on February 1, 2007. Under these regulations, all foreign exchange matters involved in an employee stock holding plan, stock option plan or similar plan in which PRC citizens participate require approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens, who are granted stock options or restricted share units or issued restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company, are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with the SAFE or its authorized branch and to comply with a series of other procedures and requirements. We and our employees who are PRC citizens and have been granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares are subject to the Stock Option Rule. In February 2012, the SAFE approved our application to designate our PRC subsidiary AmazGame to handle registrations and other procedures required by the Stock Option Rule. If we and our PRC employees who hold options, restricted share units or restricted shares fail to comply with these registration or other procedural requirements, we and such employees may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions. 44 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Class A Ordinary Shares and ADSs We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, our shareholders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws. Holders of our ADSs may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and all of our assets are located outside the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, all of our directors and executive officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for holders of our ADSs to enforce in Cayman Islands courts or PRC courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules and, as a result, we rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to shareholders of other companies. Because Sohu owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our ordinary shares, we are a “controlled company” under the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. We rely on certain exemptions that are available to controlled companies from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements: • that we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and compensation committee. We are not required to and will not voluntarily meet these requirements. As a result of our use of the “controlled company” exemptions, holders of our ADSs will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements. 45 Table of Contents The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from April 2, 2009, the first day of trading of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, until February 28, 2012, the trading price of our ADSs ranged from $19.00 to $52.00 per ADS, and the closing sale price on February 24, 2012 was $26.32 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of competitive developments, including new games by our competitors; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • failure of our quarterly financial and operating results to meet market expectations or failure to meet our previously announced guidance; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other Internet or online game companies; • additions or departures of our executive officers and other key personnel; • announcements regarding intellectual property litigation (or potential litigation) involving us or any of our directors and officers; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the RMB; • release or expiration of transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular industries or companies. Such market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. Our ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems it expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the Deposit Agreement, or for any other reason. Holders of ADSs have limited voting rights and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the Deposit Agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs may instruct the depositary how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Holders may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that direct holders of ADSs, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. In addition, due to the different voting powers attached to the two classes of our ordinary shares, our controlling shareholder, Sohu, our Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, Tao Wang, and certain of our directors, officers and key employees, all of which hold our Class B ordinary shares, control 98% of the combined total voting power of our ordinary shares. As a result, the ability of holders of our ADSs to affect the outcome of any matter subject to shareholder vote is very limited. 46 Table of Contents ADS holders’ right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings and ADS holders may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to such holders. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to ADS holders in the United States unless we register the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from registration requirements is available. Also, under the Deposit Agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to ADS holders unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to ADS holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares such holders’ ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them, or that the distribution requires certain governmental approval, such as requirement for registration or approval for currency conversion. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute that property and ADSs holders will not receive that distribution. ADS holder will experience dilution when additional Class A ordinary shares or Class B ordinary shares are issued in settlement of restricted share units or upon exercise of options. ADS holders will experience dilution to the extent that additional Class A ordinary shares are issued upon settlement of restricted share units or exercise of outstanding options that we may grant from time to time. As of February 28, 2012, there were 455,000 Class B restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class B ordinary share, and 1,069,650 Class A restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class A ordinary share. We may need additional capital and may sell additional ADSs or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 47 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of February 28, 2012, there were 21,249,800 of our Class A ordinary shares and 84,290,000 of our Class B ordinary shares outstanding. As of February 28, 2012, there were 455,000 Class B restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class B ordinary share, and 1,069,650 Class A restricted share units outstanding, with each such restricted share unit settleable upon vesting by the issuance of one Class A ordinary share. In addition, we may grant or sell additional options, restricted shares or other share-based awards in the future under our share incentive plan to our management, employees and other persons, the settlement and sale of which may further dilute our shares and drive down the price of our ADSs. We might be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or Class A ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. We expect that we will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending November 30, 2012. Our expectation is based on our current and anticipated operations and composition of our earnings and assets (including goodwill) for the 2012 taxable year, including the current and expected valuation of our assets based on the market price of our ADSs. However, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold following this annual report, a substantial amount of cash and the value of our other assets may be based in part on the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate in the future (and may fluctuate considerably given that market prices of Internet and online game companies historically have been especially volatile). Furthermore, it is not entirely clear how the contractual arrangements between us and our consolidated variable interest entities will be treated for purposes of the PFIC rules. In addition, our actual PFIC status for any taxable year will not be determinable until the close of such taxable year. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. PFIC status depends on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets (including, among others, a pro rata portion of the income and assets of each regarded subsidiary in which we own, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by value) of the equity interest) from time to time. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States holder held an ADS or a Class A ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. holder. See “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company” in Item 10. Recent press reports concerning possible increased scrutiny by Chinese authorities of the VIE structure used by us and various other Chinese companies publicly-traded in the United States appear to have created concern among investors and caused the price of our ADSs to drop, and such reports may have such an effect in the future. Recently, various prominent western news outlets have reported that the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, among other Chinese regulatory authorities, may be considering increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation of Chinese companies that use VIE structures as a means of complying with Chinese laws prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership of certain businesses in China, including online game and online advertising. Some of such news reports have also sought to draw a connection between recent widely reported accounting issues at certain Chinese companies and the use of VIE structures. Such news reports appear to have had the effect of causing significant drops in the market prices of the shares of several Chinese companies. While we believe, even if any such Chinese regulatory authorities were to increase scrutiny of VIE structures or adopt regulations specifically governing their use, that the possibility is remote that any such scrutiny would have a material adverse impact on us or cause us to change our existing operational structure in any materially adverse way, it is possible that there will be such increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation in the future. In addition, while we are not aware of any causal connection between the recently reported accounting scandals and the use of VIE structures, it is possible that investors in our ADSs will believe that such a connection exists. Any of such circumstances could lead to further loss of investor confidence in Chinese companies such as ours and cause fluctuations in the market prices of our ADSs and, if such prices were to drop sharply, could subject us to shareholder litigation, which could cause the price for our shares to drop further. 48 Table of Contents 