risk factors set forth in Item 1A “Risk Factors” below, and for the reasons described elsewhere in this Annual Report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. As used in this Annual Report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company,” “MPI” and “Myriad Pharmaceuticals” mean Myriad Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (unless the context indicates a different meaning). In addition, these terms refer to the former research and drug development businesses that were integrated and operated by Myriad Genetics, Inc. prior to June 30, 2009, which are now operated by Myriad Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing, and commercializing novel small molecule drugs that address severe medical conditions with large potential markets, including cancer and HIV infection. Our pipeline includes clinical and preclinical drug candidates with distinct mechanisms of action and novel chemical structures. The discovery and development of each of our drug candidates has been guided by a unique understanding of the genetic causes of human diseases and the genetic factors that may cause drug side effects, drug interactions, and poor drug metabolism. Our extensive experience in human genetics, protein-protein interaction technology and chemical proteomic drug discovery has allowed identification of novel drug targets and accelerated progression from chemical lead compounds to investigational drug candidates. We currently retain all rights to all of our drug candidates and programs across all geographic markets and therapeutic indications. Our strategy includes establishing our own commercial infrastructure in the United States and clinical development and commercial collaborations in other geographic regions. Our Drug Candidates The following table summarizes our most advanced drug candidates currently in clinical development: Drug Candidate Disease Clinical Stage Status* Oncology Azixa (MPC-6827) Microtubule Destabilizer Glioblastoma (combination therapy) Phase 2 Ongoing: results expected by 1H 2010 Metastatic melanoma Phase 2 Ongoing: results expected by end of 2009 Glioblastoma (monotherapy) Phase 2 Initiated in 2Q 2009 MPC-3100 Hsp90 Inhibitor Cancer Phase 1 Initiated in 2Q 2009 HIV MPC-4326 Maturation Inhibitor HIV Infection Phase 2b Expected to be initiated in 4Q 2009 * All dates are for calendar year ending December 31. We currently do not have any drugs that are commercially available and none of our drug candidates have obtained approval of the FDA or any similar foreign regulatory authority. Our Clinical-Stage Oncology Programs We currently have two clinical-stage programs in oncology: • Azixa. Azixa is our most advanced cancer drug candidate and is being developed for the treatment of advanced primary and metastatic tumors. Azixa is currently in two Phase 2 clinical trials to determine its efficacy in glioblastoma and metastatic melanoma, respectively. In the second quarter of 2009, we initiated a third Phase 2 trial of Azixa as monotherapy in patients with glioblastoma. • MPC-3100. MPC-3100 is an Hsp90 inhibitor we are developing for the treatment of cancer. In the second quarter of 2009, we initiated a Phase 1 open-label, dose-finding, multiple-dose clinical trial in patients with refractory or relapsed cancers, including solid tumors, lymphomas and leukemias. 3 Table of Contents Oncology Market Opportunity The World Health Organization estimates that more than 11 million people are diagnosed with cancer every year worldwide, and seven million people die from the disease annually. The American Cancer Society estimated that approximately 1.4 million people in the United States would be diagnosed with cancer in 2008, and approximately 566,000 people would die from the disease in 2008. According to a 2007 IMS Health report, oncology products are the largest therapeutic class of pharmaceuticals in the world, with global sales of over $40.0 billion in 2007. Azixa: Our Lead Drug Candidate for the Treatment of Cancer Background Cancers are diseases characterized by abnormal and uncontrolled cell growth and division, typically leading to tumor formation. As a tumor grows, it can directly disrupt organ function at its site of origin. In addition, cancer cells can also spread to other organs, such as the brain, bones and liver, by a process called metastasis. The growth of metastatic tumors at these new sites can disrupt the function of these other organs. There are many kinds of cancer, but all are characterized by uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells. Cancer tumors cannot grow more than a few millimeters in size, nor can they spread without developing their own network of blood vessels to supply oxygen and nutrients. Anticancer therapies typically consist of drugs which either directly inhibit uncontrolled cell growth and division or restrict oxygen supply to the tumor. Glioblastoma multiforme, or GBM, is a type of brain tumor and is amongst the most highly vascularized tumors, characterized by abnormal vessel structure and unique vascular cells. This vascular hyperplasia is believed to be essential to the rapid growth of the tumor and may offer an opportunity for treatment by agents that are both able to penetrate the brain and selectively disrupt tumor vasculature. The American Cancer Society estimated the incidence of primary central nervous system, or CNS, tumors in the United States in 2007 as 21,810. GBM represents approximately 15-20% of primary brain tumors and prognosis remains poor with median survival estimated to be between 12 to 18 months from the time of diagnosis. For GBM, first line treatment is surgical resection followed by radiation and administration of temozolomide. At recurrence, there is less guidance, usually resection if possible, re-irradiation and treatment with another systemic chemotherapy or immunotherapy. The treatment of patients with recurrent primary brain tumors is problematic, as the majority of patients with GBM are not candidates for re-operation due to tumor size and location, or poor performance status and only modestly effective therapeutic modalities are available. These therapies include drugs that kill cancer cells, or cytotoxic agents, radioactive seed implants, stereotactic radiotherapies or immunotherapy. Responses to chemotherapy regimes are generally palliative, reducing symptoms but not effecting a cure, and of limited duration. Accordingly, there are currently no approved chemotherapy regimes for recurrent malignant primary brain tumors. Stereotactic radiotherapies, such as radiosurgery or implants, benefit a minority of patients due to the large size and infiltrative nature of recurrent malignant gliomas. Additional fractionated external beam irradiation has only a modest effect on the growth of recurrent tumors and often exacerbates neurologic toxicity. Few clinical trials address the issue of recurrent GBM and the majority of trials have suffered from comparatively small numbers of highly selected patients treated with a particular therapy. New treatments for GBM are clearly needed. Melanomas, like GBM, are highly vascularized tumors. There are expected to be approximately 62,000 Americans diagnosed with melanoma this year. Advanced metastatic melanoma is associated with a poor prognosis, and effective treatment options are limited. Patients with stage IV melanoma generally have a median survival of only six to nine months, and a low probability of 10% to 20% for five-year survival. Up to 75% of patients with metastatic melanoma develop brain metastases during the course of their disease. In fact, patients with metastatic melanoma who respond to aggressive systemic therapy often relapse with metastases in the CNS. 4 Table of Contents Once patients develop brain metastases, treatment is palliative. Surgery and radiosurgery can produce effective palliation in selected cases but are usually restricted to patients with solitary CNS lesions. Radiation therapy is the current standard of care for multiple brain metastases and it can improve neurologic symptoms but does not alter disease outcome. Metastatic melanoma is poorly responsive to chemotherapy, with dacarbazine being the most widely used agent for treatment. Temozolomide is not an FDA-approved therapy for melanoma but is sometimes used, as recent studies indicate patients treated with temozolomide experienced an improvement in quality of life without increasing overall survival. However, only 20% of the temozolomide plasma concentration penetrates the blood brain barrier. Novel agents with better brain penetration are needed. Azixa Overview Azixa is a novel, small molecule drug candidate that acts as a microtubule destabilizing agent, causing arrest of cell division and programmed cell death, or apoptosis, in cancer cells. Azixa has also been shown to be a vascular disrupting agent, or VDA, in a mouse model of human ovarian cancer. Thus, Azixa has a dual mode of action; it induces apoptosis and acts as a VDA, resulting in tumor cell death. Importantly, in non-clinical studies, Azixa has demonstrated the unique ability to effectively cross the blood-brain barrier and accumulate in the brain. Azixa does not appear to be subject to multiple drug resistance. In 2007, we completed two open-label, dose-escalating, multiple dose Phase 1 clinical trials to investigate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of Azixa and to observe any evidence of anti-tumor activity in treatment of a variety of refractory solid tumors with and without brain metastases. Azixa: Preclinical Development In vitro mechanism of action studies have shown that Azixa binds to tubulin and destabilizes microtubules, which are cellular structures that play an important role in cell division and proliferation. This leads to inhibition of cell division and apoptosis. However, unlike other tubulin binding drugs, such as vincristine, vinblastine and vinorelbine, and the chemotherapeutic class of drugs known as taxanes, such as paclitaxel and docetaxel, Azixa does not appear to be a substrate for multidrug resistance pumps. The activity of Azixa in multidrug resistant cell lines was similar to its activity in nonresistant cell lines. Azixa has demonstrated potent activity in multiple cancer cell types, including glioma, melanoma, colon cancer, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer and ovarian cancer. In mice, Azixa significantly inhibited the growth of a variety of subcutaneously implanted tumor lines. Azixa has also been shown to act as a VDA in a mouse model of human ovarian cancer. Thus, Azixa has a dual mode of action; it induces apoptosis and acts as a VDA, resulting in tumor cell death. VDAs have been established to reduce interstitial pressure in the tumor microenvironment which may increase local exposure to cytotoxic chemotherapy. Consistent with this hypothesis, Azixa has been demonstrated to act synergistically with the chemotherapeutic agent carboplatin in this mouse model of ovarian cancer. Accordingly, we believe Azixa has the potential to be used either in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapies or as a single agent. The distribution of Azixa into the CNS was evaluated in mice and the time to maximum drug concentration was the same in both plasma and brain tissue, indicating that Azixa distributed rapidly into the CNS. Remarkably, Azixa concentration in the brain was 14 fold that in the plasma. Similar studies were performed in dogs and demonstrated a 30 fold higher concentration in the brain. These data suggest that it is possible to reach therapeutic drug concentrations of Azixa in the CNS with minimal systemic exposure. Based on these results, we tested the anti-tumor activity (tumor growth and survival) of Azixa in a mouse model in which human glioma cells had been implated in the brain. This study showed a statistically significant reduction in tumor burden and a statistically significant increase in survival when compared to vehicle treated mice. 5 Table of Contents Azixa: Completed Clinical Development In 2007, we completed two open-label, dose-escalating, multiple dose Phase 1 clinical trials to investigate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of Azixa and to observe for any evidence of anti-tumor activity in treatment of a variety of refractory solid tumors with and without brain metastases. In these Phase 1 trials, 6 out of 66 subjects had stable disease ranging from 5 to 16 months and there was no evidence of CNS toxicities or development of peripheral neuropathies. Azixa: Ongoing and Planned Clinical Development In 2008, we initiated recruitment of patients for an open-label, dose finding, multiple-dose Phase 2 clinical trial in subjects with recurring/relapsing GBM. We expect to enroll up to 36 subjects in this trial. Patients with recurrent GBM will receive escalating dose levels of Azixa administered in combination with a fixed dose of carboplatin. Study endpoints include determination of the maximum tolerated dose, dose limiting toxicities, and evaluation of evidence of anti-tumor activity of Azixa when given with carboplatin as judged by response rate and progression-free survival. We expect to release the results of this trial in the first half of 2010. In 2008, we initiated an open-label, dose finding, multiple-dose Phase 2 clinical trial to confirm the safety profile of Azixa in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent temozolomide, the current standard of care for recurrent metastatic melanoma, and to look for evidence of reduced tumor burden and improved survival. We expect to enroll up to 36 subjects in this trial which will explore Azixa’s efficacy in patients with metastatic melanoma with and without CNS metastasis. Patients with metastatic melanoma will receive escalating dose levels of Azixa administered in combination with a fixed dose of temozolomide. Study endpoints include determination of the maximum tolerated dose, dose limiting toxicities, and evaluation of evidence of anti-tumor activity of Azixa when given with temozolomide as judged by response rate and progression-free survival. We expect to release the results of this trial by the end of 2009. In both the ongoing GBM (combination with carboplatin) and melanoma trials, we have observed both stable disease and partial responses in evaluable patients. In the second quarter of 2009, we initiated an open-label Phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate Azixa as monotherapy in patients with GBM. In this planned trial, we currently expect to enroll approximately 68 subjects with first recurrence of GBM .We intend to investigate progression-free survival at six months as a primary endpoint with safety, pharmacokinetic parameters and overall survival as secondary endpoints. We expect this trial to take 12 to 18 months to be completed. Azixa Safety Summary In completed and ongoing clinical trials in which 102 subjects have been treated with Azixa, eight serious adverse events in seven subjects have been reported as possibly, probably or definitely related to Azixa: nonfatal myocardial infarction (single events in two subjects), cerebral hemorrhage (single events in two subjects), cerebral ischemia (one event in one subject), troponin I increased (one event in one subject) and hypersensitivity (two events in one subject). To date, the overall incidence of myocardial infarction is 2.0%, the incidence of cerebral hemorrhage is 2.0%, the incidence of cerebral ischemia is 1.0% and the incidence of troponin I increase is 1.0%. MPC-3100 for the Treatment of Cancer Background Heat shock protein 90, or Hsp90, is a chaperone protein that plays an important role in regulating the activity and function of numerous signaling proteins, or client proteins, that trigger proliferation of cancer cells. Important client proteins in cancer include steroid hormone receptors, protein kinases, mutant p53, and telomerase h-TERT. Hsp90 binds and stabilizes these client proteins and inhibition of Hsp90 leads to degradation of the client proteins important for growth of the cancer. 6 Table of Contents Early Hsp90 inhibitors have been analogs of the natural product molecule geldanamycin that have demonstrated promising preclinical and clinical proof of concept activity, but have been challenging to develop because of drug related toxicities, including hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity and pancreatitis that do not appear to be related to inhibition of Hsp90. Additional limitations to geldanamycin derivatives include poor solubility, metabolic stability and difficulty in administration. MPC-3100: Development MPC-3100 is a fully synthetic, orally bioavailable, non-geldanamycin compound that has shown significant and broad preclinical anti-tumor activity in mouse models of human cancers. MPC-3100 has not demonstrated the same hepatic or renal toxicity in vivo as the geldanamycin analogs. MPC-3100 inhibits Hsp90 by binding to the same site as geldanamycin and has displayed potent anticancer activity in several in vitro and in vivo models. MPC-3100 significantly and dose-dependently reduced tumor growth in multiple studies conducted in mice implanted with a variety of human cancer cell lines, including colon, prostate, myeloid leukemia, small cell lung, gastric, breast, and ovarian cancers. We submitted an investigational new drug application, or IND, for MPC-3100 in the first quarter of 2009 and initiated patient enrollment of a Phase 1 clinical trial in the second quarter of 2009 to investigate the safety and tolerability of MPC-3100, pharmacokinetics, and the potential for anti-tumor activity. This trial is an open-label, multiple-dose, dose escalation design in up to 40 subjects with refractory or relapsed cancer. Physical examination findings, electrocardiograms, pharmacokinetics, clinical laboratory parameters, and adverse events will be evaluated in subjects at each dose level to assess safety. Disease progression will be evaluated using standard clinical practice guidelines for each patient’s cancer type. In this ongoing study, MPC-3100 has been observed to be orally bioavailable in cancer patients. The pharmacokinetic properties and drug concentration achieved in patients to date are similar to those observed in efficacious animal studies and no dose limiting toxicities have been reported to date. Our Clinical-Stage HIV Programs We currently have two clinical-stage programs for the treatment of HIV: • MPC-4326. MPC-4326 is a first-in-class small molecule inhibitor of HIV-1 maturation that we are developing for the oral treatment of HIV infection. To date, over 740 subjects, including over 180 HIV-infected patients, have been studied in clinical trials of MPC-4326. Results from these trials have shown MPC-4326 to be well tolerated and have demonstrated significant and clinically relevant reductions in viral load. We expect to initiate a Phase 2b clinical trial of MPC-4326 in treatment-experienced HIV patients by the end of 2009. • MPC-9055. MPC-9055 is also a small molecule inhibitor of HIV-1 maturation that we are developing for the oral treatment of HIV infection. MPC-9055 is a backup program to MPC-4326 and is ready to begin Phase 2 clinical development. HIV Background and Market Opportunity Infection by HIV causes a slowly progressive deterioration of the immune system resulting in Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, or AIDS. Approximately 33 million people worldwide are living with HIV. In North America, Central Europe and Western Europe, HIV infects approximately 2.1 million people. Approximately 475,000 patients are currently being treated for HIV with antiretroviral, or ARV, drug therapy in the United States. With new HIV testing mandates from both governmental and academic groups, more people with HIV are expected to seek treatment. Several major classes of ARV drugs are available for use by patients, including reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs, NTRTIs, NNRTIs), protease inhibitors, a fusion inhibitor (enfuvirtide), an integrase inhibitor (raltegravir) and a CCR5 antagonist (maraviroc). Up to 85% of treated patients harbor at least some 7 Table of Contents drug-resistant HIV strains, as do up to approximately 25% of newly diagnosed patients, making drug resistance a major problem in the treatment of HIV. As a result, patient treatment regimens must include the use of at least three drugs in combination and may require frequent readjustment. HIV drug treatment regimens can include multiple drugs from the same class, and increasingly include drugs available as co-formulations or fixed dosage combinations. Some recent data suggests that as many as one third of patients change their HIV treatment regimen each year, a manifestation of this treatment resistance in patients. These treatment changes, coupled with approximately 25,000 patients who start treatment each year, result in opportunities for new products to be incorporated into the new treatment regimens. In 2005, worldwide sales for NRTIs and NRTI co-formulations totaled approximately $4.3 billion. In 2005, worldwide sales for NNRTIs and protease inhibitors totaled approximately $1.0 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. A recent Datamonitor report estimates that the HIV drug market will be over $10 billion globally by the year 2015, largely due to the launch of new classes of drugs. Because the most important problem in treating HIV is the emergence of viral strains that are resistant to currently approved drugs, our proprietary discovery technologies focus on novel targets in the virus life cycle, including virus maturation and virus fusion. Our primary aim is to develop small molecule oral drugs that treat HIV by addressing these novel targets. By focusing on novel classes of ARVs, we aim to meet the growing unmet need caused by resistance development to current classes of ARVs. MPC-4326 for the Treatment of HIV MPC-4326 is a first-in-class, small molecule inhibitor of HIV-1 maturation we are developing for the oral treatment of HIV infection that we acquired from Panacos Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in January 2009. MPC-4326 has demonstrated potent activity against a broad range of HIV strains, and laboratory studies have shown MPC-4326 to be an inhibitor of HIV isolates that are resistant to a large range of currently approved HIV drugs. Over 740 subjects, including over 180 HIV-infected subjects, have been studied in clinical trials of MPC-4326. Results from these trials have shown MPC-4326 to be well tolerated and have demonstrated significant and clinically relevant reductions in viral load in a subset of HIV-infected patients representing approximately 60% of HIV-infected patients, who can be identified by a simple, rapid and inexpensive assay of the HIV virus. In a Phase 2 clinical trial completed in 2008, MPC-4326 met its primary objective by demonstrating drug plasma levels in HIV-positive subjects to be in a target range for virologic reduction. In addition, MPC-4326’s safety profile was comparable to earlier studies where it had been indistinguishable from placebo. We expect to initiate a Phase 2b trial of MPC-4326 by the end of 2009. MPC-4326: Preclinical Development MPC-4326 is the first of a class of ARV drugs which inhibit HIV-1 replication by interfering with the maturation of the HIV-1 virus. Specifically, MPC-4326 interferes with a late step in the processing of the HIV-1 Gag protein. This inhibition leads to formation of noninfectious, immature virus particles, thus preventing subsequent rounds of HIV infection. As expected for a novel mechanism of action, MPC-4326 retains inhibitory activity against HIV-1 isolates resistant to the four classes of currently approved drugs commonly used by HIV-infected patients: NRTIs, NNRTIs, protease inhibitors and fusion inhibitors. As a corollary to this, isolates resistant to MPC-4326 have been shown to be fully sensitive to all classes of approved anti-HIV drugs. No cross-resistance has been observed. In addition, in vitro combination activity studies have demonstrated that MPC-4326 was synergistic when combined with most approved anti-HIV drugs that have been tested. MPC-4326: Completed Phase 2 Clinical Trials A Phase 2 clinical trial of MPC-4326 in HIV patients met its primary endpoint by demonstrating a statistically significant reduction in the viral load compared to placebo. This trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 trial conducted in the United States. MPC-4326 at one of four doses (25 mg, 8 Table of Contents 50 mg, 100 mg or 200 mg) or placebo (six to eight subjects per group) was administered orally in a liquid formulation once daily for 10 days to HIV-positive subjects who were not on other ARV therapy during the trial and for at least the previous 12 weeks. The primary endpoint was viral load reduction on day 11. Secondary endpoints included safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics. At the 50 mg, 100 mg and 200 mg doses, MPC-4326 treatment for ten days resulted in statistically significant reductions in viral load compared to placebo, with decreases of up to 98%, in individual subjects. The magnitude of viral load reduction increased with increasing MPC-4326 dose, and reduction in viral load compared to placebo was seen in both treatment-naive and in treatment-experienced subjects, confirming the potent antiviral activity of MPC-4326. In this trial, all doses were well tolerated with no Grade 3 or 4 treatment-related laboratory abnormalities. All adverse events were of mild to moderate intensity and no dose-limiting toxicity was identified. One serious adverse event was considered to be possibly drug related. It involved a subject with a 5-year history of hypertension and recent poor medication compliance who exhibited transient findings of a type of stroke which is a known complication of hypertension. This event resolved without consequence. A second Phase 2 clinical trial of MPC-4326 was conducted at multiple clinical sites in the United States. In this trial, initially using a 50 mg tablet formulation, MPC-4326 was administered to 46 HIV-positive subjects in combination with approved HIV drugs. Subjects failing standard of care therapies were enrolled in this trial and received either placebo or MPC-4326 at one of several doses. The primary efficacy endpoint of the trial was viral load reduction after two weeks of MPC-4326 dosing on top of subjects’ background drug regimens. Additional endpoints of this trial were safety after two weeks and, for the first (tablet) cohort only, safety and viral load reduction after an additional ten weeks of dosing on top of optimized background therapy. Due to stability problems with the 50 mg tablet, the protocol was revised to allow dosing with the liquid formulation. Consistent with earlier data from trials in healthy volunteers, there were generally proportional increases in plasma concentration associated with increased MPC-4326 doses. The MPC-4326 trough concentration, also referred to as Cmin (the blood level 24 hours after dosing), that appears to be associated with a virologic response is 20 µg/mL, a mean threshold that was achieved in a substantial majority of subjects in this clinical trial. The efficacy data from this trial suggest that there are two populations of subjects, responders and non-responders. Statistically significant differences between responders and non-responders exist for certain changes, or polymorphisms, in the viral DNA sequences encoding the Gag protein, or viral genotype, which is the molecular target of MPC-4326. Responders generally have none of these polymorphisms in Gag, while non-responders generally have at least one polymorphism. Of the subjects who received active MPC-4326 treatment, 34% had more than a 90% viral load reduction at day 15. Of those subjects who had a Cmin of at least 20 µg/mL and had no Gag polymorphisms, 77% had at least a 90% viral load reduction at day 15. We anticipate that future clinical trials of MPC-4326 will enroll patients having a Gag genotype correlated with a positive drug response. The most commonly reported adverse events for subjects receiving MPC-4326 were diarrhea, nausea, headache, abnormal dreams, and dizziness. A recently completed Phase 2 clinical trial conducted in Australia was designed to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics and ARV activity of 200 mg twice daily or 300 mg twice daily doses of MPC-4326 administered as monotherapy to 32 HIV-positive patients for 14 days. Patients were stratified on the basis of prior ARV therapy use; 26 patients were treatment-naïve and six were treatment-experienced. All patients were treated exclusively with MPC-4326 for 14 days; no placebo was used. Treatment-experienced patients discontinued their ARV therapy regimen at least three days prior to the start of MPC-4326 treatment. At the end of the 14 day treatment period, six patients continued treatment in an open-label extension study. Consistent with other trials in both healthy volunteer subjects and in HIV-positive patients, the rate and type of treatment emergent adverse events was primarily gastrointestinal or CNS related and judged to be of mild intensity. There were no serious adverse events, no treatment related discontinuations and no deaths reported. All 9 Table of Contents patients, regardless of dose, had MPC-4326 plasma concentrations in excess of the previously identified target levels required for treatment response. Confirming observations made in previous trials, there were two populations of subjects with respect to viral load reduction, responders and non-responders. The statistically significant differences in viral load reductions between these two populations appear to be explained by certain polymorphisms in the viral genome encoding the Gag protein. Four subjects continued to be treated in an open-label extension study through 48 weeks and have maintained undetectable viral load. In the most recent Phase 2 study, a new 100 mg tablet formulation was tested for 15 days in 35 treatment-experienced HIV patients with undetectable viral loads in dosing regimens of 200 mg twice daily, 300 mg once daily and 400 mg once daily, This 100 mg tablet had a favorable pharmacokinetic profile, was well-tolerated at all dosing levels and is suitable for further clinical development. Ongoing MPC-4326 Clinical Trials There are two ongoing drug interaction Phase 1 clinical trials of MPC-4326. The first trial is evaluating the effect of MPC-4326 on the pharmacokinetics of raltegravir and tolbutamide. The second trial is evaluating the effects of darunavir, tipranavir and rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of MPC 4326. MPC-4326 Safety Summary To date, a total of 743 people have been exposed to MPC-4326. The duration of exposure ranged from single doses for healthy volunteer subjects and HIV-positive patients participating in Phase 1 trials and up to 48 weeks for the four subjects in the open-label extension study. Of the 743 people given MPC-4326, 558, or 75%, were HIV-negative healthy volunteers and 185, or 25%, were HIV-positive patients. Across all trials conducted, there have been no deaths in subjects treated with MPC-4326 and only one treatment-related serious adverse event in an HIV-positive patient, suffering a stroke. The frequency and type of adverse events for subjects taking MPC-4326 have been similar to the frequency and type of adverse events for subjects receiving placebo. In the largest clinical trial to date, with 14 days dosing in HIV-infected subjects that used doses from 250 mg once daily to 400 mg once daily, the most commonly reported adverse events for subjects receiving MPC-4326 are set forth in the table below: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Placebo MPC-4326 Total patients 13 75 Patients with any adverse event 11 84.6 % 63 84 % GI disorders: Diarrhea 5 38.5 % 14 18.7 % Nausea 2 15.4 % 13 17.3 % Flatulence 1 7.7 % 2 2.7 % Nervous system disorders: Headache 4 30.8 % 10 13.3 % Dizziness 1 7.7 % 3 4.0 % Infections and infestations: Upper resp. tract infection 1 7.7 % 1 1.3 % Body tinea 1 7.7 % 0 n/a Influenza 1 7.7 % 0 n/a Urinary tract infection 1 7.7 % 0 n/a Psychiatric disorders: Abnormal dreams 0 n/a 5 6.7 % 10 Table of Contents Across all healthy volunteer and HIV trials, MPC-4326 has been generally well tolerated. The most common adverse events observed were diarrhea, nausea, headache and dizziness. There was no dose-response relationship between the severity or the frequency of adverse events in subjects treated with MPC- 4326. The majority of treatment-emergent adverse events were mild in intensity. In addition, there were no clinically relevant differences in the type of laboratory abnormalities in subjects who received MPC-4326 as compared with subjects who received placebo. Across all trials, there was no dose-response relationship observed between either the severity or the frequency of these laboratory abnormalities in subjects treated with MPC-4326. MPC-4326: Other Completed Trials MPC-4326 has been evaluated in a number of single and multi-dose Phase 1 clinical trials to evaluate safety, pharmacokinetics and oral bioavailability. In these trials, MPC-4326 was well tolerated, with good oral bioavailability and favorable pharmacokinetics, including a long half life of approximately 60 hours. MPC-4326 has also been evaluated in two drug interaction Phase 1 clinical trials in order to study the possible effects of co-administration of the drug with ritonavir or atazanavir, which are commonly prescribed for the treatment of HIV. Based on these trials, it is unlikely that either atazanavir or ritonavir will have any clinically relevant impact on MPC-4326 plasma concentrations and, conversely, it is unlikely that MPC-4326 will have any clinically relevant impact on either atazanavir or ritonavir plasma concentrations. MPC-4326: Planned Clinical Development We expect to initiate a Phase 2b clinical trial of MPC-4326 in treatment-experienced HIV patients by the end of 2009. The trial is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of MPC-4326 after 24 weeks of treatment in HIV-infected patients that are failing their current HIV drug regimen and to allow us to determine the dose and study design for additional pivotal trials. MPC-9055 for the Treatment of HIV MPC-9055 is also an oral, small molecule inhibitor of HIV-1 maturation that we are developing as a backup drug candidate for MPC-4326. MPC-9055 has demonstrated increased potency over MPC-4326 using in vitro viral replication assays but is not as advanced in clinical development. In 2008, we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial of MPC-9055 to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic parameters of MPC-9055 in healthy volunteers. The overall safety profile was favorable and the observed pharmacokinetic profile supports continued development. MPC-9055 is a backup program to MPC-4326 that has successfully completed a Phase 1 clinical trial and is ready to begin Phase 2 clinical development. MPC-9055: Preclinical Development MPC-9055 is another ARV drug candidate in our pipeline which inhibits HIV-1 replication by inhibiting maturation of the HIV-1 virus. MPC-9055 acts in a similar manner to MPC-4326 by interfering with Gag-protein processing, leading to formation of noninfectious, immature virus particles, thus preventing subsequent rounds of HIV infection. Like MPC-4326, MPC-9055 retains inhibitory activity against HIV-1 isolates resistant to the four classes of currently approved drugs commonly used by HIV-infected patients, and isolates resistant to MPC-9055 have been shown to be fully sensitive to all classes of approved anti-HIV drugs. No cross-resistance has been observed. MPC-9055: Clinical Development In 2008, we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial of MPC-9055 in healthy volunteers. This trial was a single oral dose, double blind, placebo controlled, sequential escalating design study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic parameters of MPC-9055 under fasted and fed conditions. The fasted dose levels were 1, 2, 11 Table of Contents 4, 8, 16, 32 and 48 mg/kg. The fed dose levels were 8 mg/kg (high fat) and 16 mg/kg (low fat). An additional cohort of eight subjects was enrolled to assess the relative bioavailability of an oral tablet formulation. Safety measurements included physical exams, electrocardiograms, vital signs, laboratory parameters, and adverse event monitoring. Pharmacokinetic parameters were summarized and dose-proportionality was assessed using a log-log model. In this trial, a total of 63 subjects received active drug and 20 received placebo. No serious adverse events or clinically significant laboratory trends or electrocardiogram changes were observed. Overall, 30% of subjects who received active treatment experienced at least one treatment emergent adverse event compared to 15% who received placebo. The most common adverse events in the active treatment groups were nausea, diarrhea, and lightheadedness. All adverse events were of mild intensity with the exception of one adverse event of moderate intensity diarrhea. The half life of MPC-9055 was greater than 24 hours. When administered with food the oral absorption of MPC-9055 increased approximately two-fold. Additional Phase 1 trials, such as multiple dose studies in healthy volunteers or subjects with HIV and drug:drug interaction studies, may be conducted to assess safety and pharmacokinetics of multiple doses, concurrent therapies, or effects of age, gender, renal function, hepatic function and food intake. Based on the completed Phase 1 trial of MPC-9055, the overall safety profile appears favorable and the observed pharmacokinetic profile supports continued development. MPC-9055 is a backup program to MPC-4326 and is ready to begin Phase 2 clinical development. Our Preclinical Programs Our proprietary research is focused on two broad disease areas: oncology and HIV. Within each disease area, we are investigating a number of potential drug targets as well as screening potential drug candidates against novel intracellular targets and optimizing those drug candidates that appear to have the greatest potential. Our most advanced preclinical drug candidates are: • MPI-443803. MPI-443803 is an orally available, brain penetrant, microtubule destabilizing agent we are developing for the treatment of cancer. MPI-443803 was developed in an extensive medicinal chemistry effort to produce an orally bioavailable analogue of Azixa. Like Azixa, MPI-443803 is a potent inducer of apoptosis that prevents the polymerization of tubulin into microtubules. In preclinical studies, MPI-443803 has shown pro-apoptotic activity in multiple cancer types including pancreatic, breast, colorectal, non-small cell lung, melanoma, ovarian and leukemia. MPI-443803 has demonstrated excellent oral bioavailability and crosses the blood brain barrier and distributes rapidly into the CNS. We believe that MPI-443803 may be a promising candidate for development as an oral alternative to Azixa. • MPI-461359. MPI-461359 is a potent, orally available maturation inhibitor we are developing for the treatment of HIV. MPI-461359 was discovered in a medicinal chemistry program as a potent, broad acting small molecule inhibitor of HIV-1 maturation. Preclinical assays demonstrate that MPI-461359 works late in the viral life cycle, has a novel mechanism of action and is believed to target the last step in Gag processing. Pharmacokinetic studies in rodents demonstrate that MPI-461359 is highly orally available. Based upon this efficacy profile, novel mechanism of action and pharmacokinetic properties, we believe MPI-461359 has potential as a promising new HIV therapeutic. Our Drug Discovery Capabilities Our drug discovery capabilities embody our ten years of experience as a research and development unit. This experience includes a deep understanding of human genetics, the genetic causes of human diseases and the genetic factors that may cause drug side effects, drug interactions, and poor drug pharmacokinetics. In addition, we have developed two technologies which we believe provide us with a competitive advantage over other 12 Table of Contents biopharmaceutical companies. The first is called ProNet, which is both an automated, high throughput technology to identify protein-protein interactions and an extensive database of those interactions. The second technology utilizes chemical proteomics which allows the identification of proteins which bind to a small molecule compound. These two technologies allow us to identify novel drug targets and improve the selectivity of our drug candidates, thus increasing the efficiency of our drug discovery programs and allowing us to move rapidly from initial compound identification to preclinical candidate. Our discovery process employs early evaluation of the ADMET (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity) characteristics of compounds in order to eliminate poor candidates and improve the efficiency and success rate of preclinical candidate selection. We are focused on cancer and HIV because these are diseases with a high unmet medical need. We believe that our drug discovery capability and proven success rate will continue to provide a pipeline of unique compounds. Depending upon the availability of our development resources, our preclinical candidates may be added to our own internal clinical pipeline, or out-licensed to other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for clinical development and commercialization. Our internal drug discovery operation includes 39 biologists, 32 chemists, 9 ADMET specialists and eight in-vivo pharmacologists and has a significant track record of success. Out of seven lead optimization projects completed to date, five projects have produced a total of eight compounds of which five entered preclinical development and four of those advanced to clinical development. When we consider all twenty four novel drug targets for which we have conducted any sustained chemistry, we believe that our project success rate for the delivery of novel compounds for clinical testing is over five times the 3% industry wide average reported in Drug Discovery Today. We are currently focused on several lead optimization projects that involve targets for cancer. We are keenly interested in novel kinase targets, based on the abundance of protein kinase oncogenes, on the validation of the kinase class as targets for cancer and the remarkable success rate of kinase inhibitors in the clinic. Our most advanced lead optimization project targets TTK, a protein kinase that is essential for cell division. We have identified highly selective TTK inhibitors. We expect to identify an additional compound for preclinical development by the end of 2009. Our drug discovery group also has strong capabilities in chemical proteomics and in the analysis of protein-protein interactions. These two technologies are used for novel target discovery and to support lead characterization in projects. Our chemical proteomics technology involves linking compounds of interest to beads, isolating proteins from cells or tissue using these bead-linked compounds, and identifying the bound proteins using liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. This technology has allowed us to identify targets for compounds that have interesting characteristics, such as potent cytotoxicity in cancer cells, but for which the targets have not been previously identified. One of our four current lead optimization projects is derived from such work. This technology also offers a powerful method for investigating selectivity of lead compounds in all projects. Our TTK project is a specific example in which compounds with TTK inhibitory activity were found to also bind to other kinases. Subsequently, we were able to incorporate these kinases into our routine screening methods thus improving compound selectivity through chemical optimization. We believe that our drug discovery capability and proven success rate working with novel targets will continue to provide a pipeline of unique and patentable compounds. Depending upon the availability of our development resources, these compounds may be added to our own internal preclinical pipeline, or out-licensed to other pharmaceutical companies for development and commercialization. Our Research Services Capabilities Because virtually all cellular processes are controlled by proteins, knowledge of specific protein interactions and the functions of the interacting proteins can be extremely valuable in the identification of novel drug targets for therapeutic development. We have developed and maintain ProNet, an extensive proprietary database of protein-protein interactions which encompasses interactions between approximately 10 million protein fragments 13 Table of Contents constructed from a variety of organ tissues including heart, brain, kidney, liver, breast and prostate. We offer access to ProNet on a subscription basis to third parties to examine protein interactions related to a specific disease or disease pathway. In addition, we continue to develop the ProNet database and related yeast-two-hybrid systems for potential commercial partners through contract services which include, sub-database creation and search, custom library development and assay development. Research revenue was $5.5 million, $6.8 million, and $11.8 million for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Research revenue from our contract research agreements is recognized using a proportional performance methodology over the life of each contract. Consequently, such revenue will fluctuate up or down depending upon when we enter into new contracts, complete our obligations under existing contracts and as these individual programs progress and outputs increase or decrease. Our research services group has had several successful collaborations with public and private institutions and companies and through these collaborations we have continued to increase the size and scope of our database, while refining its assay technology. Our prior collaborations with pharmaceutical and technology companies have focused on numerous therapeutic areas, including diabetes, Alzheimer’s disease, obesity, cardiovascular disease and transcription factors. Internally, additional work has been done in the areas of carcinogenesis, virology and Alzheimer’s disease, adding several thousand interactions to our proprietary database. Most recently, we have improved the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of ProNet and have expanded our research services to include proprietary drug discovery assay technology and expect to generate company revenue via further drug discovery and ProNet collaborations with industry and government agencies. Our Strategy Our strategy is to develop and commercialize novel small molecule drugs that address severe medical conditions with large markets, including cancer and HIV infection. The key elements of our strategy include: • Advance the clinical development of our current drug candidates. We plan to advance drug candidates based on the results of preclinical and clinical testing and assessment of market potential. Specifically, we intend to continue Phase 2 development of Azixa, and, if supported by favorable data, we intend to initiate pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials. We expect to initiate a Phase 2b clinical trial of MPC-4326 in treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients in the fourth quarter of 2009. We also expect to continue a Phase 1 open-label, dose-finding, multiple-dose clinical trial of MPC-3100 in patients with refractory or relapsed cancers, including solid tumors, lymphomas and leukemias. We believe that these three products have a combined market potential in excess of $2 billion in worldwide sales. • Establish a commercial infrastructure. Our drug candidates target large markets primarily treated by specialist physicians. Where we elect to complete development, we may pursue commercialization ourselves for specialized markets and/or commercialize these drug candidates through partnering or licensing arrangements. Our oncology drug candidates, Azixa and MPC-3100, would be prescribed in the United States primarily by oncologists, allowing us to market these products with a relatively small sales force. Similarly, our HIV drug candidate, MPC-4326, would be prescribed primarily by a relatively small number of specialist physicians. This strategy of developing our own specialty market commercial infrastructure in the United States may allow us to maximize the financial returns from and retain control of our lead drug candidates and subsequent products that we develop. • Selectively and strategically establish collaborative relationships to enhance the overall value of our programs. At present, we retain all rights to all of our drug candidates and programs across all geographic markets and therapeutic indications. For certain drug candidates and programs, we may in the future, establish research, development and/or commercial collaborations with other companies in order to maximize the value of those programs through enhanced scientific capabilities and commercial and financial resources. 14 Table of Contents • Accelerate our path to marketed pharmaceutical products through in-licensing or acquisition. We may acquire or in-license drugs, drug candidates or related technologies and capabilities in order to accelerate our path to marketed pharmaceutical products, reduce risk and increase near-term revenues. We may consider mergers or acquisitions to accomplish these objectives although we have no current plans for any such transactions. • Continue to leverage our cancer and HIV drug discovery and development capabilities. The discovery and development of each of our drug candidates has been guided by a unique understanding of the genetic causes of human diseases, the genetic factors that may cause drug side effects, drug interactions and poor drug metabolism, all of which are the result of capabilities built over ten years while a part of Myriad Genetics. We plan to leverage our extensive experience in drug discovery and development in oncology and HIV infection by continuing our small molecule discovery platform and expanding our pipeline of drug candidates in these therapeutic areas. Intellectual Property Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our drug candidates, technology, and know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others, and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions, and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. We intend to seek patent protection in the United States and major foreign jurisdictions for drug compounds, pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms, therapeutic and prophylactic methods, theranostic methods, processes of manufacturing, and other inventions which we believe are patentable and where we believe our interests would be best served by seeking patent protection. We also rely upon trade secret rights to protect certain other technologies which may be used in discovering, characterizing, and manufacturing new therapeutic products. However, any such patents may not issue, and the breadth or the degree of protection of any claims of such patents may not afford us with significant protection. To further protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require that our employees and consultants enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements. However, those confidentiality and invention assignment agreements may not provide us with adequate protection. We own or have licensed rights to over 30 issued patents and over 200 patent applications in the United States and foreign countries. However, any patent applications which we have filed or will file or to which we have licensed or will license rights may not issue, and patents that do issue may not contain commercially valuable claims. In addition, any patents issued to us or our licensors may not afford meaningful protection for our products or technology, or may be subsequently circumvented, invalidated or narrowed, or found unenforceable. Our processes and potential products may also conflict with patents which have been or may be granted to competitors, academic institutions or others. As the pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our processes and potential products may give rise to interferences filed by others in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or to claims of patent infringement by other companies, institutions or individuals. These entities or persons could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the related product or process. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the relevant product or process. We may not prevail in any such action and any license required under any such patent may not be made available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to commercialize our technologies or potential products could have a materially adverse effect on our business. 15 Table of Contents We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, and in the future may determine in some cases that our interests would be better served by reliance on trade secrets or confidentiality agreements rather than patents or licenses. We may not be able to protect our rights to such unpatented proprietary technology and others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies. If we are unable to obtain strong proprietary rights to our processes or products after obtaining regulatory clearance, competitors may be able to market competing processes and products. Others may obtain patents having claims which cover aspects of our products or processes which are necessary for, or useful to, the development, use or manufacture of our services or products. Should any other group obtain patent protection with respect to our discoveries, our commercialization of potential therapeutic products and methods could be limited or prohibited. Material Licenses The rights to certain patents and technologies have been acquired through license agreements with other corporations or academic institutions. The license agreements that we consider of particular importance to our business are summarized below. License and Collaboration Agreement with EpiCept Corporation In November 2003, Myriad Genetics entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Maxim Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Cytovia, Inc. All licensed rights of Maxim and Cytovia were subsequently acquired by EpiCept Corporation, and we refer to Maxim, Cytovia and EpiCept collectively herein as EpiCept. In connection with the separation, Myriad Genetics assigned this agreement to us but will remain liable for the performance and observance of our duties and obligations under the agreement. Pursuant to this license agreement, we hold an exclusive, worldwide right to utilize certain intellectual property rights of EpiCept, including patents, patent applications and know-how that relate to Azixa, in the development and commercialization of products for the treatment or prevention of any disease or disorder. We have the right to grant sublicenses of licensed rights. We are obligated to pay EpiCept a royalty on net sales of products subject to the license. Royalty payments range, based on sales volume, from the mid to high single digits and may be reduced by up to 50% if we are obligated to pay a royalty to a third party in order to make, use or sell such products, subject to a maximum reduction amount. The license agreement also provides for license fees, research support, and milestone payments of up to $27 million based on the occurrence of specified product development related events for each product based on a particular active ingredient, provided that milestone payments made on a product that is subsequently abandoned may be credited against milestone payment obligations for future products. We are also obligated to make payment of a percentage of certain income received from sublicensees. We are obliged to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize licensed products in major markets, failing which, our rights in a major market could end. We are responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining the licensed patent rights, and we bear the majority of costs related to those activities. We have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce the patent rights against infringement. We are obligated to indemnify EpiCept against any liabilities resulting from our utilization of the licensed patent rights and manufacture and commercialization of licensed products. The license agreement ends on the later of ten years after the date of the first commercial sale of a licensed product or the expiration of EpiCept patent rights covered by the license agreement. These rights are presently not expected to expire until July 2024, based on the last patent issued to date. The license may be sooner terminated on the bankruptcy or uncured material breach of a party. As of June 30, 2009 Myriad Genetics had made payments totaling $4 million under the EpiCept license and collaboration agreement. 16 Table of Contents License Agreement with University of North Carolina In January 2009, we entered into a transaction with Panacos Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the University of North Carolina, or UNC, through which we were assigned Panacos’ interest in certain intellectual property rights, including certain know-how and patents that relate to MPC-4326, and licensed the interests of UNC in that intellectual property. Our rights under the license include exclusive rights under licensed patents on a world-wide basis, and include the right to grant sublicenses. Under this license agreement we will pay UNC a royalty based on net sales of licensed products. Royalty payments range, based on sales volume, in the low single digits and may be reduced by up to 50% if we are obligated to pay a royalty to a third party in order to make, use or sell such products, subject to a maximum reduction amount. The license agreement also provides for milestone payments of up to $225,000 based on the occurrence of specified development and commercialization events for each product based on a particular active ingredient. We are also obliged to pay to UNC a specified share of sublicensing fees we receive under sublicenses that we grant. We are obliged to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize a licensed product either directly or through a sublicensee. UNC has the right to terminate the license agreement if we or a sublicensee fail to apply for regulatory approval of a licensed product by a certain date, and to commence commercial sales within a specified timeframe after regulatory approval of the licensed product, although we may postpone those dates for successive one year periods by making additional payments to UNC. We may terminate the license agreement on thirty days’ notice. The license may also be terminated on the bankruptcy or uncured material breach of a party. If it is not sooner terminated, the license agreement ends on the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, which presently is anticipated in June 2015, based on the last patent issued to date. We are responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining the licensed patent rights, and we bear all costs related to those activities. We have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce the patent rights against infringement. We are obligated to indemnify UNC against any liabilities resulting from our utilization of the licensed rights. As of June 30, 2009 we had made no payments under the UNC license agreement. Manufacturing and Supply We currently rely on contract manufacturers to produce drug substances and drug products required for our clinical trials under current good manufacturing practices or cGMP, with oversight by our internal managers. We plan to continue to rely upon contract manufacturers or possibly collaboration partners to manufacture commercial quantities of our drug candidates if and when approved for marketing by the FDA. We currently rely on a single manufacturer for the preclinical or clinical supplies of each of our drug candidates and do not currently have relationships for redundant supply or a second source for any of our drug candidates. We believe that there are alternate sources of supply that can satisfy our clinical trial requirements without significant delay or material additional costs. Sales and Marketing We may establish our own sales and marketing capabilities if and when we obtain regulatory approval of our drug candidates. Patients in the markets for our drug candidates are largely managed by medical specialists in the areas of oncology and infectious diseases. Historically, companies have experienced substantial commercial success through the deployment of specialized sales forces which can address a majority of key prescribers. Therefore, we may utilize a specialized sales force in the United States for the sales and marketing of drug candidates that we may successfully develop. We currently have limited marketing, sales and distribution 17 Table of Contents capabilities. In order to participate in the commercialization of any of our drugs, we must develop these capabilities on our own or in collaboration with third parties. We may also choose to hire a third party to provide sales personnel instead of developing our own staff. Outside of the United States, and in situations or markets where a more favorable return may be realized through licensing commercial rights to a third party, we may license a portion or all of our commercial rights in a territory to a third party in exchange for one or more of the following: up-front payments, research funding, development funding, milestone payments and royalties on drug sales. Competition The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. We will face competition with respect to all drug candidates we may develop or commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. The key factors affecting the success of any approved product will be its efficacy, safety profile, drug interactions, method of administration, pricing, reimbursement and level of promotional activity relative to those of competing drugs. If approved, we would expect our clinical-stage drug candidates, Azixa, MPC-3100 and MPC-4326 to compete with approved drugs and drug candidates currently under development, including the following: • Azixa. If approved, we would expect Azixa to compete with multiple vascular disrupting agents in clinical development (including ASA404 from Novartis and AVE8062 from sanofi-Aventis, which are currently in Phase 3 development) as well as numerous treatments for glioblastoma in development (including cediranib from AstraZeneca and cilengitide from Merck KGaA, which are currently in Phase 3 development) and approved products bevacizumab, temozolomide and Gliadel implants. If approved for metastatic melanoma, we would expect Azixa to compete with other treatments for metastatic melanoma currently in clinical development (including ipilimumab from Bristol-Myers Squibb and sunitinib from Pfizer, which are currently in Phase 3 and Phase 2 development, respectively) and approved products interleukin-2 and dacarbazine. • MPC-3100. If approved, we would expect MPC-3100 to compete with natural product derived, geldanamycin-based analogs in development (including tanespimycin from Kosan/Bristol-Myers Squibb and retaspimycin from Infinity/AstraZeneca, which are in Phase 2/3 development) and non-geldanamycin products in development (including BIIB021 from Biogen Idec and SNX5422 from Serenex/Pfizer which are in Phase 1/2 development), small molecule inhibitors of Hsp90 currently in clinical development as well as other cancer treatments currently approved or in clinical development. • MPC-4326. If approved, we would expect MPC-4326 to compete with all the approved classes of ARV drugs for the treatment of HIV-infected patients and others in development. Approved drugs include: two classes of reverse transcriptase inhibitors; NRTIs, including tenofovir and others, and NNRTIs, including efavirenz and others; protease inhibitors, including ritonavir and others; the fusion inhibitor, enfuvirtide; the integrase inhibitor, raltegravir; and the CCR5 antagonist, maraviroc. In addition, there are several antiretroviral drugs in Phase 3 development including rilpivirine from J&J/Tibotec and elvitegravir from Gilead. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and personnel resources than us. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our collective experience in drug discovery, development and commercialization to: • discover and develop medicines that are differentiated from other products in the market; • obtain patent and/or proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; • obtain required regulatory approvals; • commercialize our drugs, if approved; and • attract and retain high-quality research, development, and commercial personnel. 18 Table of Contents Government Regulation and Product Approval Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, packaging, promotion, storage, advertising, distribution, marketing and export and import of products such as those we are developing. Our drugs must be approved by the FDA through the new drug application, or NDA, process before they may be legally marketed in the United States. United States Government Regulation NDA Approval Processes In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and implementing regulations. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include: • the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications; • license suspension or revocation; • withdrawal of an approval; • a clinical hold; • warning letters; • product recalls; • product seizures; • total or partial suspension of production or distribution; or • injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent substantial compliance with appropriate federal, state, local, and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: • completion of preclinical laboratory tests according to Good Laboratory Practices; • submission of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; • performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; • submission to the FDA of an NDA; • satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug’s identity, strength, quality and purity; and • FDA review and approval of the NDA. Once a pharmaceutical candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information 19 Table of Contents and analytical data, to the FDA as part of the IND. Some preclinical or nonclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. In addition to including the results of the preclinical studies, the IND will also include a protocol detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated if the first phase lends itself to an efficacy determination. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, specifically places the sponsor on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin. All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with good clinical practice regulations. These regulations include the requirement that all research subjects provide informed consent. Further, an institutional review board, or IRB, at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution. Each new clinical protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: • Phase 1. The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the disease and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, absorption, metabolism, distribution and elimination. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients. • Phase 2. Involves studies in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. • Phase 3. Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These studies are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the product and provide, if appropriate, an adequate basis for product labeling. Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institutions for several reasons, including if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. During the development of a new drug, sponsors are given an opportunity to meet with the FDA at certain points. These points are prior to submission of an IND, at the end of Phase 2, and before an NDA is submitted. These meetings can provide an opportunity for the sponsor to share information about the data gathered to date, for the FDA to provide advice, and for the sponsor and FDA to reach agreement on the next phase of development. Sponsors typically use the end of Phase 2 meeting to discuss their Phase 2 clinical results and present their plans for the pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial that they believe will support approval of the new drug. If a Phase 2 clinical trial is the subject of discussion at an end of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA, a sponsor may be able to request a special protocol assessment, the purpose of which is to reach agreement with the FDA on the design of the Phase 3 clinical trial protocol design and analysis that will form the primary basis of an efficacy claim. If such an agreement is reached, it will be documented and made part of the administrative record, and it will be binding on the FDA unless public health concerns unrecognized at the time of protocol assessment are evident, and may not be changed except under a few specific circumstances. 20 Table of Contents On occasion, the FDA may suggest or the sponsor of a clinical trial may decide to use an independent data monitoring committee, or DMC, to provide advice regarding the continuing safety of trial subjects and the continuing validity and scientific merit of a trial. In 2006, the FDA published a final Guidance for Clinical Trial Sponsors on the Establishment and Operation of Clinical Trial Data Monitoring Committees in which it describes the types of situations in which the use of a DMC is appropriate and suggests how a DMC should be established and operate. DMCs evaluate data that may not be available to the sponsor during the course of the study to perform interim monitoring of clinical trials for safety and/or effectiveness and consider the impact of external information on the trial. They often make recommendations to the sponsor regarding the future conduct of the trial. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the quality, purity and potency of the final drugs. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf-life. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug, results of chemical studies and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of user fees, but a waiver of such fees may be obtained under specified circumstances. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing. It may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the NDA must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application also is subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or other data. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured and tested. Satisfaction of FDA requirements or similar requirements of state, local and foreign regulatory authorities typically takes at least several years and the actual time required may vary substantially, based upon, among other things, the indication and the type, complexity and novelty of the product. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all. Even if a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial application of the product. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Delays in obtaining, or failures to obtain, regulatory approvals for any drug candidate could substantially harm our business and cause our stock price to drop significantly. In addition, we cannot predict what adverse governmental regulations may arise from future U.S. or foreign governmental action. 21 Table of Contents Expedited Review and Approval The FDA has various programs, including Fast Track, priority review, and accelerated approval, which are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drugs, and/or provide for approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints. Even if a drug qualifies for one or more of these programs, we cannot be sure that the FDA will not later decide that the drug no longer meets the conditions for qualification or that the time period for FDA review or approval will be shortened. Generally, drugs that may be eligible for these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs, and those that offer meaningful benefits over existing treatments. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Although Fast Track and priority review do not affect the standards for approval, the FDA will attempt to facilitate early and frequent meetings with a sponsor of a Fast Track designated drug and expedite review of the application for a drug designated for priority review. Drugs that receive an accelerated approval may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval perform post-marketing clinical trials. Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of the use of our drugs, some of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product’s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND, and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension and the extension must be applied for prior to expiration of the patent. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we intend to apply for restorations of patent term for some of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond their current expiration date, depending on the expected length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the submission of the relevant NDA. Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages, or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 22 Table of Contents Orphan Drug Designation Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. Orphan drug exclusivity, however, also could block the approval of one of our products for seven years if a competitor obtains approval of the same drug as defined by the FDA or if our drug candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease. Pediatric Exclusivity Section 505A of the FDCA, as amended by the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, permits certain drugs to obtain an additional six months of exclusivity, if the sponsor submits information requested in writing by the FDA, or a Written Request, relating to the use of the drug in children. The FDA may not issue a Written Request for studies on unapproved or approved indications or where it determines that information relating to the use of a drug in a pediatric population, or part of the pediatric population, may not produce health benefits in that population. We have not requested or received a Written Request for such pediatric studies, although we may ask the FDA to issue a Written Request for such studies in the future. To receive the six-month pediatric market exclusivity, we would have to receive a Written Request from the FDA, conduct the requested studies in accordance with a written agreement with the FDA or, if there is no written agreement, in accordance with commonly accepted scientific principles, and submit reports of the studies. The FDA will accept the reports upon its determination that the studies were conducted in accordance with and are responsive to the original Written Request or commonly accepted scientific principles, as appropriate, and that the reports comply with the FDA’s filing requirements. The FDA may not issue a Written Request for such studies or accept the reports of the studies. Post-approval Requirements Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Any drug products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things: • record-keeping requirements; • reporting of adverse experiences with the drug; • providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information; • drug sampling and distribution requirements; 23 Table of Contents • notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of specified manufacturing or labeling changes; • complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements; and • complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and some state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and some state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our products. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Foreign Regulation In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. Under European Union regulatory systems, we may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, or diabetes and optional for those medicines which are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the remaining member states. Within 90 days of receiving the applications and assessments report each member state must decide whether to recognize approval. If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. As in the United States, we may apply for designation of a product as an orphan drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the European Union before the application for marketing authorization is made. Orphan drugs in Europe enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including up to ten years of market exclusivity for the approved indication unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan-designated product. Reimbursement Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of third-party reimbursement. Third-party payors include government health administrative authorities, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. We anticipate third-party payors will provide reimbursement for our products. However, these third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of 24 Table of Contents medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Our drug candidates may not be considered cost-effective. It is time consuming and expensive for us to seek reimbursement from third-party payors. Reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, imposes new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries, and includes a major expansion of the prescription drug benefit under a new Medicare Part D. Medicare Part D went into effect on January 1, 2006. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities which will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both stand-alone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. It is not clear what effect the MMA will have on the prices paid for currently approved drugs and the pricing options for new drugs approved after January 1, 2006. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. At the present time, Medicare is prohibited from negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies for drugs. However, Congress has periodically considered legislation that would lift the ban on federal negotiations. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our drug candidates. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. This law provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research will be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes for Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures will be made to Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate any policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what if any effect the research will have on the sales of our drug candidates if any such drug candidate or 25 Table of Contents the condition that it is intended to treat is the subject of a study. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our drug candidates or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover our drug candidates could reduce physician usage of the drug candidate and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Employees As of September 1, 2009, we had 181 full-time employees, 56 of whom hold an M.D., Ph.D, or combined M.D./Ph.D. Approximately 159 employees are engaged in research and development and clinical and regulatory affairs, and 22 are in general and administrative functions. Our workforce is non-unionized, and we believe our employee relations are good. Corporate History and Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware in January 2009 as a new, wholly owned subsidiary of Myriad Genetics, Inc. in order to effect the separation and spin-off of Myriad Genetics’ research and drug development businesses as a stand-alone, independent, publicly traded company. In connection with the formation of this new subsidiary, Myriad Genetics’ existing subsidiary, Myriad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., changed its corporate name to Myriad Therapeutics, Inc., and we adopted the name of Myriad Pharmaceuticals, Inc. On June 30, 2009, Myriad Genetics contributed substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of its research and drug development businesses as well as $188 million in cash and marketable securities to us and effected the spin-off of our company through the pro rata dividend distribution to its stockholders of all outstanding shares of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 320 Wakara Way, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108. Our telephone number is 801-214-7800 and our web site address is www.myriadpharma.com. We include our web site address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our web site. We make available free of charge through the “Investors—Financial Information” section of our web site our Corporate Code of Conduct and Ethics, our Audit Committee and other committee charters and our other corporate governance policies, as well as our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 26 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Our Business We anticipate that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We do not expect to generate the cash that is necessary to finance our operations in the short term. We incurred losses of $58.1 million, $34.4 million and $92.7 million for the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development and other significant operating expenses and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses and losses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: • conduct our ongoing and planned clinical trials for Azixa, MPC-4326, and MPC-3100 and initiate additional clinical trials, if supported by the results of our ongoing trials; • complete preclinical development of MPI-461359 and MPI-443803 and initiate clinical trials, if supported by positive preclinical data; • begin to establish commercial manufacturing arrangements and establish sales and marketing functions; • identify additional drug candidates and acquire rights from third parties to drug candidates through licenses, acquisitions or other means; • commercialize any approved drug candidates; • hire additional clinical, scientific, manufacturing/quality and management personnel; and • add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel. We must generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drug candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We will require additional capital to fund our operations, and if we are unable to obtain such capital, we will be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates. We believe that our existing cash and investment securities will be sufficient to support our current operating plan through at least June 30, 2012. However, we will require additional capital in order to complete the clinical development of and to commercialize our drug candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: • the timing of initiation, progress, results and costs of our clinical trials for Azixa, MPC-4326, and MPC-3100; • the results of preclinical studies of MPI-461359 and MPI-443803, and the timing of initiation, progress, results and costs of any clinical trials that we may initiate based on the preclinical results; • the costs of establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements and of establishing sales and marketing functions; • the scope, progress, results, and cost of preclinical development, clinical trials, and regulatory review of any new drug candidates for which we may initiate development; 27 Table of Contents • the costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property-related claims; • our ability to establish research collaborations and strategic collaborations and licensing or other arrangements on terms favorable to us; • the costs to satisfy our obligations under potential future collaborations; and • the timing, receipt, and amount of sales or royalties, if any, from any approved drug candidates. We cannot assure you that additional funds will be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may be required to: • terminate or delay clinical trials or other development for one or more of our drug candidates; • delay our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities, commercial manufacturing capabilities, or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our drug candidates; or • curtail significant drug development programs that are designed to identify new drug candidates. We may seek to raise any necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds through alliance, joint venture or licensing arrangements. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on Dr. Adrian Hobden, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Wayne Laslie, our Chief Operating Officer, Robert Lollini, our Chief Financial Officer, and Dr. Edward Swabb, our Senior Vice President, Drug Development, and Chief Medical Officer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any of our key executives due in part to the fact that the agreements we have entered into with the principal members of our executive and scientific teams provide for employment that can be terminated by either party without cause at any time. Further, the non-compete provisions to which each employee is subject, generally expire for certain key executive officers one year from the applicable date of termination of employment, which means that these executives may be employed by a competitor of ours in the future. We intend to enter into retention agreements with certain of our key executive officers to reinforce and encourage continued employment and dedication without distraction from the possibility of a change in control and related events and circumstances. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any of these persons in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development, and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and possibly sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Development and Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates Our success is largely dependent on the success of our drug candidates, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of these drug candidates. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our drug candidate, Azixa for the treatment of solid primary and metastatic brain tumors. We have also invested a significant amount of time and financial resources in the development of our other clinical-stage drug candidates, MPC-4326 and MPC-3100. We anticipate that our success will depend largely on the receipt of regulatory approval and successful commercialization of these drug candidates. The future success of these drug candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of their safety and efficacy; • receipt of marketing approval from the FDA and any similar foreign regulatory authorities; • obtaining and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers or establishing commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities; • establishing an internal sales force or collaborating with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to market and sell any approved drug; and • acceptance of any approved drug in the medical community and by patients and third-party payors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will ever be able to generate revenues through the sale of Azixa, MPC-4326 or MPC-3100. Our drug candidates are still in the early stages of development and remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. To date, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any drugs. The success of our business depends substantially upon our ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. We have three clinical-stage drug candidates currently in development, Azixa, MPC-4326 and MPC-3100, all of which are in the early stages of development. Our drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of Azixa, MPC-4326, MPC-3100 or any other drug candidate for a target indication, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, and, with respect to approval in the United States, to the satisfaction of the FDA and, with respect to approval in other countries, similar regulatory authorities in those countries, that the drug candidate is safe and effective for use for that target indication. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain, and subject to unanticipated delays. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: • offer improvement over existing, comparable drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards; or • be successfully commercialized. Positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. Interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we 29 Table of Contents may obtain in later stage trials or studies. Our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, or to discontinue clinical trials altogether. We do not expect any of our drug candidates to be commercially available for at least several years and some or all may never become commercially available. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular drug candidate: • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards, or IRBs, or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of our drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining regulatory agency agreement for the conduct of our clinical trials; • lower than anticipated enrollment and retention rate of subjects in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size of patient population, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in clinical trials; or • failure of our third-party contractors to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRBs at the sites where the IRBs are overseeing a trial, or a data safety monitoring board, or DSMB, overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • varying interpretation of data by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities; • failure to achieve primary or secondary endpoints or other failure to demonstrate efficacy; • unforeseen safety issues; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. 30 Table of Contents We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials will result in increased development costs for our drug candidates. In addition, if we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. Furthermore, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a drug candidate. Even if our drug candidates receive regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our drug candidates. Both before and after marketing approval, our drug candidates are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, and if we fail to comply with these continuing requirements, we could be subject to a variety of sanctions and the sale of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Both before and after regulatory approval to market a particular drug candidate, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the drug are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products or manufacturing processes; • untitled or warning letters; • civil or criminal penalties; • fines; • injunctions; • product seizures or detentions; • import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and related publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. 31 Table of Contents If side effects increase or are identified during the time our drug candidates are in development or after they are approved and on the market, we may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, change the labeling of any such products, or withdraw any such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. In completed and ongoing clinical trials in which a total of 102 subjects have been treated with Azixa, our drug candidate in development for the treatment of cancer, eight serious adverse events in seven subjects have been reported as possibly, probably or definitely related to Azixa. These events consist of one subject experiencing two events of hypersensitivity, two subjects experiencing nonfatal myocardial infarctions, one subject experiencing elevated troponin I levels, two subjects experiencing a cerebral hemorrhage, and one subject experiencing CNS cerebral ischemia. To date, a total of more than 740 people have been exposed to MPC-4326, our drug candidate in development for the treatment of HIV. Across all trials of MPC-4326 conducted there has been one serious adverse event involving an HIV-positive patient suffering a stroke, which was considered possibly related to treatment by the investigator. Other reported adverse events of mild or moderate intensity that appear to be related to treatment with MPC-4326 include diarrhea, nausea, headache and dizziness. In the second quarter of 2009, we initiated an open-label, dose-finding, multiple-dose Phase 1 clinical trial of MPC-3100, our drug candidate in development for the treatment of cancer, in up to 40 patients with refractory or relapsed cancers, including solid tumors, lymphomas and leukemias. In this ongoing study, MPC-3100 has been observed to be orally bioavailable in cancer patients. The pharmacokinetic properties and drug concentration achieved in patients to date are similar to those observed in efficacious animal studies and no dose limiting toxicities have been reported to date. Furthermore, even if any of our drug candidates receives marketing approval, as greater numbers of patients use a drug following its approval, if the incidence of side effects increases or if other problems are observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could substantially increase the costs and expenses of developing, commercializing and marketing any such drug candidates or could harm or prevent sales of any approved products. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Certain of our drug development activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials, and we could be liable for any civil damages that result, which may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. Because we believe that our laboratory and materials handling policies and practices sufficiently mitigate the likelihood of materials liability or third-party claims, we currently carry no insurance covering such claims. An accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Drug Candidates Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, if the approved product does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from sales of the product will be limited. Even if any drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain broad market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients, and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance for any approved drug candidate will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • availability of reimbursement from managed care plans and other third-party payors; • convenience and ease of administration; • cost-effectiveness; • other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and • ineffective marketing and distribution support of our products. If our approved drugs fail to achieve broad market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to market any products that may be approved by the FDA, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. If government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement rates for any of our drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers, and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage and the amounts that they will pay for new drugs, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our drug candidates. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such payors’ satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state 33 Table of Contents proposals to implement similar governmental controls. In addition, recent changes in the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our drug candidates are approved for marketing. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, changes the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and disabled and introduced new reimbursement methodologies, based on average sales prices for drugs that are administered in an in-patient setting or by physicians. In addition, this legislation provides authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. Although we do not know what impact the new reimbursement methodologies will have on the prices of new drugs, we expect that there will be added pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The markets for our drug candidates are subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. We will face competition with respect to all drug candidates we may develop or commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. The key factors affecting the success of any approved product will be its efficacy, safety profile, drug interactions, method of administration, pricing, reimbursement and level of promotional activity relative to those of competing drugs. If approved, we would expect our clinical-stage drug candidates, Azixa, MPC-3100 and MPC-4326 to compete with approved drugs and drug candidates currently under development, including the following: • Azixa. If approved, we would expect Azixa to compete with multiple vascular disrupting agents in clinical development (including ASA404 from Novartis and AVE8062 from sanofi-Aventis, which are currently in Phase 3 development) as well as numerous treatments for glioblastoma in development (including cediranib from AstraZeneca and cilengitide from Merck KGaA, which are currently in Phase 3 development) and approved products bevacizumab, temozolomide and Gliadel implants. If approved for metastatic melanoma, we would expect Azixa to compete with other treatments for metastatic melanoma currently in clinical development (including ipilimumab from Bristol-Myers Squibb and sunitinib from Pfizer, which are currently in Phase 3 and Phase 2 development, respectively) and approved products interleukin-2 and dacarbazine. • MPC-3100. If approved, we would expect MPC-3100 to compete with natural product derived, geldanamycin-based analogs in development (including tanespimycin from Kosan/Bristol-Myers Squibb and retaspimycin from Infinity/AstraZeneca, which are in Phase 2/3 development) and non-geldanamycin products in development (including BIIB021 from Biogen Idec and SNX5422 from Serenex/Pfizer which are in Phase 1/2 development), small molecule inhibitors of Hsp90 currently in clinical development as well as other cancer treatments currently approved or in clinical development. • MPC-4326. If approved, we would expect MPC-4326 to compete with all the approved classes of antiretroviral drugs for the treatment of HIV-infected patients and others in development. Approved drugs include: two classes of reverse transcriptase inhibitors; NRTIs, including tenofovir and others, and NNRTIs, including efavirenz and others; protease inhibitors, including ritonavir and others; the fusion inhibitor, enfuvirtide; the integrase inhibitor, raltegravir; and the CCR5 antagonist, maraviroc. In addition, there are several antiretroviral drugs in Phase 3 development including rilpivirine from J&J/Tibotec and elvitegravir from Gilead. 34 Table of Contents Furthermore, many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target the same indications we are targeting with our drug candidates. We face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize drug candidates; • more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • drug candidates that have been approved or are in late-stage clinical development; and/or • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our drug candidates. Furthermore, the development of new treatment methods and/or the widespread adoption or increased utilization of any vaccine or development of other products or treatments for the diseases we are targeting could render our drug candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our drug candidates, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our drug candidates, the timing of their entry into the market in relation to competitive products in development, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. If we successfully develop drug candidates but those drug candidates do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could incur substantial liability. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for any approved drug candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to successfully commercialize any approved drug candidates. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $5.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we obtain marketing approval for any of our drug candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable 35 Table of Contents to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. If we inadvertently violate the guidelines pertaining to promotion and advertising of our drug candidates or approved products, we may be subject to disciplinary action by the FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications or other regulatory bodies. The FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications, or DDMAC, is responsible for reviewing prescription drug advertising and promotional labeling to ensure that the information contained in these materials is not false or misleading. There are specific disclosure requirements and the applicable regulations mandate that advertisements cannot be false or misleading or omit material facts about the product. Prescription drug promotional materials must present a fair balance between the drug’s effectiveness and the risks associated with its use. Most warning letters from DDMAC cite inadequate disclosure of risk information. DDMAC prioritizes its actions based on the degree of risk to the public health and often focuses on newly introduced drugs and those associated with significant health risks. There are two types of letters that DDMAC typically sends to companies which violate its drug advertising and promotional guidelines: notice of violation letters, or untitled letters, and warning letters. In the case of an untitled letter, DDMAC typically alerts the drug company of the violation and issues a directive to refrain from future violations, but does not typically demand other corrective action. A warning letter is typically issued in cases that are more serious or where the company is a repeat offender. Although we have not received any such letters from DDMAC, we may inadvertently violate DDMAC’s guidelines in the future and be subject to a DDMAC untitled letter or warning letter, which may have a negative impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. Although we have, in the ordinary course of business, entered into agreements with these third parties, we continue to be responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. To date, we believe our contract research organizations and other similar entities with which we are working have performed well. However, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, we may be delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and may be delayed in our efforts to successfully commercialize our drug candidates for targeted diseases. If we do not establish strategic collaborations, we may have to alter our development plans. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. Our strategy includes potentially collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential 36 Table of Contents commercialization of some of our drug candidates, in some or all geographies. It may be difficult to enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our drug candidates to market and generate product revenue. We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our clinical trial drug supplies. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of any of our drug candidates. We have limited experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we currently rely on third-party manufacturers to supply, store, and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials and anticipate future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers until we increase the number of manufacturers with whom we contract. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates or commercialization of any approved products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. Our drug candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control, and quality assurance. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If for some reason our contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of potential replacements as our manufacturing processes are not manufacturer specific, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements because the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer prior to manufacturing our drug candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates after receipt of FDA approval. We anticipate continued reliance on third-party manufacturers if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for any of our drug candidates. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical testing and clinical trials by third-party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our drug candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our approved drug candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our approved drug candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If they are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, or we are unable to establish our own manufacturing capabilities, the commercial launch of any approved products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. 37 Table of Contents We depend on third-party suppliers for key raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, and the loss of these third-party suppliers or their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials could harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials required for the production of our drug candidates. Our dependence on these third-party suppliers and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. We cannot be certain that our current suppliers will continue to provide us with the quantities of these raw materials that we require or satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited or sole sourced raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are several other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could delay the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, including limiting supplies necessary for clinical trials and regulatory approvals, or interrupt production of the existing products that are already marketed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property relating to our drug candidates, or if we infringe the rights of others, our ability to successfully commercialize our drug candidates will be harmed. We own or hold licenses to a number of issued patents and U.S. pending patent applications, as well as foreign patents and pending PCT applications and foreign counterparts. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our drug candidates. Our ability to protect our drug candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends in substantial part on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our drug candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are or will be valid or enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the U.S. Patent Office, for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors or co-owners were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our drug candidates or their use as drugs. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. 38 Table of Contents We license patent rights from third-party owners. Our licenses may be subject to early termination if we fail to comply with our obligations in our licenses with third parties. We are party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. In particular, we have licenses from EpiCept Corporation (formerly Maxim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) with respect to Azixa and from the University of North Carolina with respect to MPC-4326. We may also enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future. Our licensors may terminate their agreements with us in the event we breach the applicable license agreement and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Under our existing license agreements we are obligated to pay the licensor fees, which may include annual license fees, royalties, a percentage of revenues associated with the licensed technology and a percentage of sublicensing revenue. In addition, under our existing license agreements, we are required to diligently pursue the development of products using the licensed technology. If we breach any of the terms of our licenses, the licensors may terminate the agreements. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing drug candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Although we are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement related to our drug candidates, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding: • the patentability of our inventions relating to our drug candidates; and/or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our drug candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our drug candidates to market; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our drug candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover 39 Table of Contents our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Risks Relating to Our Recent Separation from Myriad Genetics We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from Myriad Genetics. As a stand alone, independent, public company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, allowing our management to design and implement corporate policies and strategies that are based primarily on the characteristics of our business, allowing us to focus our financial resources wholly on our own operations and implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our own specific needs. By separating from Myriad Genetics there is a risk that our company may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been were we still a part of the current Myriad Genetics. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a stand-alone, independent research and drug development company or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. For example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will place a greater value on our company as a stand-alone company than on our business being part of Myriad Genetics. We have no operating history as an independent, public company, and we may be unable to make the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. Prior to our separation from Myriad Genetics, our business was operated by Myriad Genetics as part of its broader corporate organization rather than as a stand-alone company. Myriad Genetics assisted us by providing financing and certain corporate functions. Following the separation, with the exception of an estimated six month transition period during which Myriad Genetics will lease us certain office space and information technology support, Myriad Genetics will have no obligation to provide assistance to us. Because our business has not been operated as an independent company, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement the changes necessary to operate independently or that we will not incur additional costs operating independently that would have a negative effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, prior to the separation, our business was able to leverage Myriad Genetics’ size, relationships and purchasing power in procuring goods, services and technology (including office supplies, computer software licenses and equipment), travel and all employee benefits plans for which per employee cost was based on number of lives covered. Our separation from Myriad Genetics will have a significant impact on the per employee cost for certain coverage such as health care and disability. We are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and business functions to replace many of the systems and business functions that Myriad Genetics currently provides us. We will also need to make significant investments in information technology and administrative personnel to develop our independent ability to operate without Myriad Genetics’ existing operational and administrative infrastructure. These initiatives will be costly to implement, and we may not be successful in implementing these systems and business functions. We estimate that replacement costs to implement accounting, human resource, payroll, purchasing, information technology and legal and other business functions and systems will be approximately $3.9 million. In addition, we expect to spend up to approximately $6.0 million on leasehold improvements to our facilities after the separation. We may experience increased costs as a result of the separation. We need to provide for certain administrative and support functions that were previously provided by Myriad Genetics. In addition, certain services still provided by MGI will need to be replaced in the near future. 40 Table of Contents We may not be successful in replacing, in a timely manner, the services or other benefits that Myriad Genetics previously provided to us. We are or anticipate providing these services internally or obtaining such services from unaffiliated third parties, and we expect that in some instances, we will incur higher costs to obtain such services. Thus, we anticipate that we will incur additional incremental expenses associated with being an independent, public company. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our projected losses may increase. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to meet the financial reporting and other requirements to which we will be subject following the separation. If we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of Myriad Genetics. However, we were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. As a result of the separation, we are now subject to the reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. To comply with these requirements, we will need to upgrade our systems, including information technology, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional legal, accounting and finance staff. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. In addition, if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if the auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information we have included in this Form 10-K may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly traded company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future when we are an independent company. This is primarily because: • our historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided to us by Myriad Genetics, which allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as an independent company; and • our historical financial information does not reflect changes that we expect to incur in the future as a result of our separation from Myriad Genetics, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the contributed businesses as a result of the separation from Myriad Genetics and from reduced economies of scale. 41 Table of Contents Following the separation, we are now responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, public company, including costs related to corporate governance and listed and registered securities. Therefore, our financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, please see “Selected Historical Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We may have received better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with Myriad Genetics. The agreements related to our separation from Myriad Genetics, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement and the other agreements, were negotiated in the context of our separation from Myriad Genetics while we were still part of Myriad Genetics and, accordingly, may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of the agreements we negotiated in the context of our separation related to, among other things, allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations among Myriad Genetics and us. We may have received better terms from third parties because third parties may have competed with each other to win our business. The general criteria used to determine the allocation of assets and liabilities related to our separation from Myriad Genetics was based on ensuring the ability of us to successfully operate the research and pharmaceutical businesses on an independent basis, with no further involvement of Myriad Genetics. Thus, the assets used in the operations of the research and pharmaceutical businesses, as well as $188 million were contributed by Myriad Genetics to us. We believe that with these capital contributions, we will have adequate funds for our current and planned operations through at least June 30, 2012. In addition, we have assumed any continuing contractual obligations related to the research and drug development businesses; however, all liabilities or payables related to such businesses that accrued prior to the separation, except accrued vacation of approximately $1.0 million and other accrued liabilities related to drug development activities of approximately $3.6 million, remain the responsibility of Myriad Genetics. All assets and liabilities of Myriad Genetics’ diagnostic business remained with Myriad Genetics. The ownership by certain of our executive officers and directors of shares of common stock and/or options to purchase shares of common stock of Myriad Genetics may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. The ownership by certain of our executive officers and directors of shares of common stock and/or options to purchase shares of common stock of Myriad Genetics may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest. Because of their former positions with Myriad Genetics, certain of our executive officers and directors own shares of Myriad Genetics common stock and/or options to purchase shares of Myriad Genetics common stock. The individual holdings of common stock and/or options to purchase common stock of Myriad Genetics may be significant for some of these persons compared to such persons’ total assets. Ownership by our directors and officers of common stock and/or options to purchase common stock of Myriad Genetics creates, or, may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Myriad Genetics than the decisions have for us. For example, our executive officers participated in discussions regarding the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements related to our separation from Myriad Genetics. Additionally, some of our directors also participated in the negotiation of certain terms under those agreements. 42 Table of Contents If the distribution of our common stock or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and Myriad Genetics could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Myriad Genetics received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common stock to the Myriad Genetics stockholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common stock, qualified as tax-free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code. The private letter ruling also provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation qualified for favorable treatment under the Code. The private letter ruling relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us and Myriad Genetics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to stockholders who received our common stock in the separation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, Myriad Genetics would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common stock distributed to Myriad Genetics stockholders on the distribution date over Myriad Genetics’ tax basis in such common shares. We and Myriad Genetics would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or Myriad Genetics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or Myriad Genetics as a result thereof. Such tax amounts could be significant. We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to U.S. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. Our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve for U.S. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution of our common stock by Myriad Genetics in the separation. In addition, similar limitations and restrictions will apply to Myriad Genetics. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to Myriad Genetics under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common stock or Myriad Genetics common stock is acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of Myriad Genetics’ common stock within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common stock or Myriad Genetics common stock within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Myriad Genetics may be able to rebut that presumption. We are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of Myriad Genetics common stock within the two years before the distribution. If an acquisition or issuance of our common stock or Myriad Genetics common stock triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, Myriad Genetics would recognize taxable gain as described above, and certain subsidiaries of Myriad Genetics or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, including entering into, approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in 43 Table of Contents ownership of more than 50% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 50% or more of our common stock, or engaging in certain internal transactions. These restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless we obtain a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an unqualified opinion that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. In addition, Myriad Genetics is subject to similar restrictions under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Moreover, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as a tax-favored transaction under the Code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its stockholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion as described above. For example, we would be responsible for the acquisition of us by a third party at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. These restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Substantial sales of common stock could cause our stock price to decline. The shares of our common stock that Myriad Genetics distributed to its stockholders generally may be sold immediately in the public market. It is possible that some Myriad Genetics stockholders, including possibly some of our large stockholders, will sell some or all of our common stock received in the distribution for many reasons, such as that our business profile or market capitalization as an independent company does not fit their investment objectives. The sales of significant amounts of our common stock, or the perception in the market that this will occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. A trading market that provides stable liquidity may not develop for our common stock. In addition the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. On June 12, 2009, trading of shares of our common stock began on a “when-issued” basis and has continued on a “regular” basis since July 1, 2009. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will continue or be sustained in the future. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade in the future. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • progress in and results from our clinical trials of Azixa, MPC-4326 and MPC-3100; • failure or delays in advancing our preclinical drug candidates or other drug candidates we may develop in the future, into clinical trials; • results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; • issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or approved products; • regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; • public concern over our drug candidates or any approved products; • litigation; 44 Table of Contents • future sales of our common stock; • general market conditions; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In particular, stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Provisions of our charter and bylaws and Delaware law and our shareholder rights agreement, or poison pill, may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of our board be elected at one time; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. We have also implemented a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire us on a hostile basis. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. 45 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 