Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Our Business We anticipate that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We do not expect to generate the cash that is necessary to finance our operations in the short term. We incurred losses of $38.7 million, $46.9 million and $58.1 million for the years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant research and development and other significant operating expenses and capital expenditures and anticipate that we will continue to have significant expenses and losses in the foreseeable future as we: • conduct clinical trials for MPC-3100 and initiate additional clinical trials, if supported by the results of such trials; and • complete preclinical development of MPC-8640, MPC-0767, and MPI-0485520 and initiate clinical trials, if supported by positive preclinical data. We must generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drug candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We will require additional capital to fund our operations, and if we are unable to obtain such capital, we will be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates. We believe that our existing cash and investment securities will be sufficient to support our current operating plan through at least June 30, 2014. However, we will require additional capital in order to complete the clinical development of and to commercialize our drug candidates. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: • the timing of initiation, progress, results and costs of our clinical trials for MPC-3100; • the results of preclinical studies of MPC-8640, MPC-0767, and MPI-0485520 and the timing of initiation, progress, results and costs of any clinical trials that we may initiate based on the preclinical results; • the costs of establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements and of establishing sales and marketing functions, if needed; • the scope, progress, results, and cost of preclinical development, clinical trials, and regulatory review of any new drug candidates for which we may initiate development; • the costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property-related claims; • our ability to establish research collaborations and strategic collaborations and licensing or other arrangements on terms favorable to us; • the costs to satisfy our obligations under potential future collaborations; and • the timing, receipt, and amount of sales or royalties, if any, from any approved drug candidates. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may be required to terminate or delay clinical trials or other development for one or more of our drug candidates. 20 Table of Contents We may seek to raise any necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We currently have an effective universal shelf registration statement pursuant to which we have $80 million in securities available for sale. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds through alliance, joint venture or licensing arrangements. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key executives and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Adrian N. Hobden, resigned effective July 21, 2011, and Robert Lollini, our Chief Financial Officer, was appointed our Interim President and Chief Executive Officer on July 21, 2011, and our permanent President and Chief Executive Officer effective September 6, 2011. In connection with his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Lollini resigned as our Chief Financial Officer. On September 6, 2011, Andrea Kendell was appointed our Chief Financial Officer. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense and we must retain and motivate highly qualified scientific personnel. We are highly dependent on Mr. Lollini, Ms. Kendell, and Wayne Laslie, our Chief Operating Officer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any of our key executives due in part to the fact that the agreements we have entered into with the principal members of our executive and scientific teams provide for employment that can be terminated by either party without cause at any time. Further, the non-compete provisions to which each employee is subject, generally expire for certain key executive officers one year from the applicable date of termination of employment, which means that these executives may be employed by a competitor of ours in the future. We have entered into retention agreements with certain of our key executive officers to reinforce and encourage continued employment and dedication without distraction from the possibility of a change in control and related events and circumstances. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any of these persons in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and possibly sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. Risks Related to the Development and Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates Our success is largely dependent on the success of our drug candidates, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of these drug candidates. We have invested significant time and financial resources in the development of our drug candidates. We anticipate that our success will depend largely on the receipt of regulatory approval and successful commercialization of our drug candidates. The future success of our clinical and pre-clinical programs will depend on several factors, including the following: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of their safety and efficacy; • receipt of marketing approval from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; • obtaining and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers or establishing commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities; 21 Table of Contents • possibly establishing an internal sales force or collaborating with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to market and sell any approved drug; and • acceptance of any approved drug in the medical community and by patients and third-party payors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will ever be able to generate revenues through the license or sale of any of our drug candidates. Our drug candidates are still in the early stages of development and remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. To date, we have not marketed, distributed or sold any drugs. The success of our business depends substantially upon our ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. We currently have one clinical-stage drug candidate in development, MPC-3100, which is in the early stages of development. Our drug candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of MPC-3100 or any other drug candidate for a target indication, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, and, with respect to approval in the United States, to the satisfaction of the FDA and, with respect to approval in other countries, similar regulatory authorities in those countries, that the drug candidate is safe and effective for use for that target indication. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain, and subject to unanticipated delays. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: • offer improvement over existing, comparable drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards; or • be successfully commercialized. Positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. Interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials or studies. Our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, or to discontinue clinical trials altogether. We may also decide to stop development of a drug candidate for other reasons. We do not expect any of our drug candidates to be commercially available for at least several years and some or all may never become commercially available. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular drug candidate: • conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; 22 Table of Contents • delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards, or IRBs, or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of our drug supply or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining regulatory agreement for the conduct of our clinical trials; • lower than anticipated enrollment and retention rate of subjects in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including size of patient population, nature of trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in clinical trials; or • failure of our third-party contractors to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Clinical trials may also be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRBs at the sites where the IRBs are overseeing a trial, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • the imposition of a clinical hold by the FDA; • varying interpretation of data by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities; • failure to achieve primary or secondary endpoints or other failure to demonstrate efficacy; • unforeseen safety issues; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Additionally, changes in standard of care or regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Such amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. Such changes may also require us to reassess the viability of the program in question. We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials will result in increased development costs for our drug candidates. In addition, if we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be affected and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. Furthermore, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a drug candidate. Even if our drug candidates receive regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our drug candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Both before and after marketing approval, our drug candidates are subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, and if we fail to comply with these continuing requirements, we could be subject to a variety of sanctions and the sale of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Both before and after regulatory approval to market a particular drug candidate, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the drug are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • civil or criminal penalties; • fines; • injunctions; • product seizures or detentions and related publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drug candidates or supplements to approved applications. If side effects increase or are identified during the time our drug candidates are in development or after they are approved and on the market, we may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, change the labeling of any such products, or withdraw such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. In the second quarter of 2009, we initiated a Phase 1 open-label, dose-finding, multiple-dose clinical trial of MPC-3100, our drug candidate in development for the treatment of cancer, in patients with refractory or relapsed cancers, including solid tumors, lymphomas and leukemias. This study has been completed in the clinic and we expect to report results in the fourth quarter of 2011. In the Phase 1 clinical trial, 26 subjects have been treated with MPC-3100. Five serious adverse events in four subjects have been reported as possibly related to MPC-3100: abdominal pain (single event in a single patient), respiratory failure and supraventricular tachycardia (two events in a single patient), enteritis (single event in a single patient), and renal failure (single event in a single patient). If the incidences of these side effects increases or other problems occur in future clinical trials, we may be required to terminate or delay clinical development of the product candidate. Furthermore, even if any of our drug candidates receives marketing approval, as greater numbers of patients use a drug following its approval, if the incidence of side effects increases or if other problems are observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to reformulate such products, change the way the product is manufactured or administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits; and • our reputation in the market place may suffer resulting in a significant drop in the sales of the affected products. 24 Table of Contents Any of these events could substantially increase the costs and expenses of developing, commercializing and marketing any such drug candidates or could harm or prevent sales of any approved products. While we choose to test our drug candidates in specific clinical indications based in part on our understanding of their mechanisms of action, our understanding may be incorrect or incomplete and, therefore, our drugs may not be effective against the diseases tested in our clinical trials. Our rationale for selecting the particular therapeutic indications for each of our drug candidates is based in part on our understanding of the mechanism of action of these drug candidates. However, our understanding of the drug candidate’s mechanism of action may be incomplete or incorrect, or the mechanism may not be clinically relevant to the diseases treated. In such cases, our drug candidates may prove to be ineffective in the clinical trials for treating those diseases. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Certain of our drug development activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials, and we could be liable for any civil damages that result, which may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. Because we believe that our laboratory and materials handling policies and practices sufficiently mitigate the likelihood of materials liability or third-party claims, we currently carry no insurance covering such claims. An accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Drug Candidates Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, if the approved product does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from sales of the product will be limited. Even if drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain broad market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients, and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance for any approved drug candidate will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • availability of reimbursement from government health programs and other third-party payors; • convenience and ease of administration; • cost-effectiveness; • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and • ineffective marketing and distribution support of our products. If our approved drugs fail to achieve broad market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to market any products that may be approved by the FDA, or similar foreign regulatory authorities, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities, license to a commercial partner, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and our business would suffer. If government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and payment rates for any of our drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, the sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers, and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage and the amounts that they will pay for new drugs, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our drug candidates. In addition, in order to show such payors that our future products are cost effective, we may have to conduct costly post-marketing clinical studies. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. Changes in healthcare policy could adversely affect our business. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, expanded Medicare coverage for drugs purchased by Medicare beneficiaries and introduced new reimbursement methodologies. In addition, this law provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. We do not know what impact the MMA and similar laws will have on the availability of coverage for and the price that we receive for any approved products. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare policies in setting their own reimbursement policies, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in similar reductions by private payors. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, together the Affordable Care Act or ACA. This law is expected to result in an increase in the number of people who are covered by both public and private insurance and is also expected to substantially change the way health care is financed by both government health program and private insurers, and significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry. The ACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations in ways that may negatively affect our potential revenues in the future. For example, the ACA imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers that sell branded prescription drugs to U.S. government programs which we believe will increase the cost of our products. In addition, as part of the ACA’s provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), we will be required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs sold to beneficiaries who fall within the donut hole. While it is too early to predict all the specific effects the ACA or any future healthcare reform legislation will have on our business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The availability of government reimbursement for prescription drugs is also likely to be impacted by the Budget Control Act of 2011, which was signed into law on August 2, 2011. This law is expected to result in federal spending cuts totaling between $1.2 trillion and $1.5 trillion over the next decade over half of which will include cuts in Medicare and other health related spending. 26 Table of Contents The markets for our drug candidates are subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. We will face competition with respect to all drug candidates we may develop or commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. The key factors affecting the success of any approved product will be its efficacy, safety profile, drug interactions, method of administration, pricing, reimbursement and level of promotional activity relative to those of competing drugs. If approved, we would expect our drug candidates to compete with approved drugs and potentially with drug candidates currently under development, including the following: • Hsp90 Inhibitor Program. If approved, we would expect MPC-3100 and MPC-0767 to compete with other Hsp90 inhibitors currently in clinical development, natural product derived, geldanamycin-based analogs in development (including retaspimycin from Infinity, which is in Phase 2 development) and non-geldanamycin small molecule inhibitors of Hsp90 currently in clinical development (including AUY922 from Vernalis/Novartis and ganetespib from Synta which are in Phase 2 development), as well as other cancer treatments currently approved or in clinical development. • Cancer Metabolism Inhibitor (CMI) Program. If approved, we would expect our CMI drug candidates, including MPC-8640, to compete with numerous approved products for the treatment of cancer and with other treatments currently in clinical development for the treatment of cancer. • Small-molecule Anti-interferon Program. If approved, we would expect our small-molecule anti-interferon drug candidates, including MPI-0485520, to compete with numerous approved products for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and with other treatments currently in clinical development for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Furthermore, many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target the same indications we are targeting with our drug candidates. We face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and commercialize drug candidates; • more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • drug candidates that have been approved or are in late-stage clinical development; and/or • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our drug candidates. Furthermore, the development of new treatment methods and/or the widespread adoption or increased utilization of any vaccine or development of other products or treatments for the diseases we are targeting could render our drug candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our drug candidates, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our drug candidates, the timing of their entry into the market in relation to competitive products in development, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. If we successfully develop drug candidates but those drug candidates do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. 27 Table of Contents If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could incur substantial liability. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for any approved drug candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to successfully commercialize any approved drug candidates. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials with a $5.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we obtain marketing approval for any of our drug candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims, and state gift ban laws which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly known as the federal anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit the payment of any remuneration that is intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of health care products or services. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professional and health care organizations. Some state statutes impose an outright ban on gifts to physicians. These laws are often referred to as “gift ban” or “aggregate spend” laws, and they carry substantial fines if they are violated. In addition, the ACA requires the annual reporting of certain payments and other transfers of value that are made to health care professionals in 2012 and thereafter. The federal ACA does not preempt all aspects of the similar state laws. 28 Table of Contents In the event that we are found to have violated these laws or decide to settle a claim that we have done so, our business may be materially adversely affected as a result of any payments required to be made, restrictions on our future operations or actions required to be taken, damage to our business reputation or adverse publicity in connection with such a finding or settlement or other adverse effects relating thereto. Additionally, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. Although we have, in the ordinary course of business, entered into agreements with these third parties, we continue to be responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. To date, we believe our contract research organizations and other similar entities with which we are working have performed well. However, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, we may be delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and may be delayed in our efforts to successfully commercialize our drug candidates for targeted diseases. If we do not establish strategic collaborations, we may have to alter our development plans. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. Our strategy includes collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of some of our drug candidates, in some or all geographies. It may be difficult to enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our drug candidates to market and generate product revenue. We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our clinical trial drug supplies. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of any of our drug candidates. We have limited experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we currently 29 Table of Contents rely on third-party manufacturers to supply, store, and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials and anticipate future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers until we increase the number of manufacturers with whom we contract. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates or commercialization of any approved products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. Our drug candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control, and quality assurance. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If for some reason our contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of potential replacements as our manufacturing processes are not manufacturer specific, we may incur added costs and delays in identifying and qualifying any such replacements because the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer prior to manufacturing our drug candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates after receipt of FDA approval. We anticipate continued reliance on third-party manufacturers if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for any of our drug candidates. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical testing and clinical trials by third-party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our drug candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our approved drug candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our approved drug candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If they are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, or we are unable to establish our own manufacturing capabilities, the commercial launch of any approved products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. We depend on third-party suppliers for key raw materials used in our manufacturing processes, and the loss of these third-party suppliers or their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials could harm our business. We rely on third-party suppliers for the raw materials required for the production of our drug candidates. Our dependence on these third-party suppliers and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality, and delivery schedules. We cannot be certain that our current suppliers will continue to provide us with the quantities of these raw materials that we require or satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited or sole sourced raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are several other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could delay the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, including limiting supplies necessary for clinical trials and regulatory approvals, or interrupt production of the existing products that are already marketed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property relating to our drug candidates, or if we infringe the rights of others, our ability to successfully commercialize our drug candidates will be harmed. We own or hold licenses to a number of issued patents and U.S. pending patent applications, as well as foreign patents and pending PCT applications and foreign counterparts. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our drug candidates. Our ability to protect our drug candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends in substantial part on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our drug candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are or will be valid or enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the U.S. Patent Office, for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors or co-owners were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our drug candidates or their use as drugs. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, drug candidates, and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We license patent rights from third-party owners. Our licenses may be subject to early termination if we fail to comply with our obligations in our licenses with third parties. We are party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. We may also enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future. Our licensors may terminate their agreements with us in the event we breach the applicable license agreement and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Under our existing license agreements we 31 Table of Contents are obligated to pay the licensor fees, which may include annual license fees, royalties, a percentage of revenues associated with the licensed technology and a percentage of sublicensing revenue. In addition, under our existing license agreements, we are required to diligently pursue the development of products using the licensed technology. If we breach any of the terms of our licenses, the licensors may terminate the agreements. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing drug candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding: • the patentability of our inventions relating to our drug candidates; and/or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our drug candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; • encounter significant delays in bringing our drug candidates to market; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our drug candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 32 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Separation from Myriad Genetics Our historical financial information for periods ending on or prior to June 30, 2009 is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for periods ending on or prior to June 30, 2009 may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly traded company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows are as an independent company. This is primarily because: • such historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided to us by Myriad Genetics, which allocations may not reflect the costs we now incur for similar services as an independent company; and • such historical financial information does not reflect changes that resulted from our separation from Myriad Genetics, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the contributed businesses as a result of the separation from Myriad Genetics and from reduced economies of scale. Following the separation, we are now responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, public company, including costs related to corporate governance and listed and registered securities. Therefore, our financial statements for periods prior to June 30, 2009 may not be indicative of our performance as an independent company. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, please see “Selected Historical Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If the distribution of our common stock or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax, and Myriad Genetics could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Myriad Genetics received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of our common stock to the Myriad Genetics stockholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our common stock, qualified as tax-free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code. The private letter ruling also provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation qualified for favorable treatment under the Code. The private letter ruling relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us and Myriad Genetics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to stockholders who received our common stock in the separation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, Myriad Genetics would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common stock distributed to Myriad Genetics stockholders on the distribution date over Myriad Genetics’ tax basis in such common shares. We and Myriad Genetics would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. 33 Table of Contents In addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into with Myriad Genetics, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or Myriad Genetics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or Myriad Genetics as a result thereof. Such tax amounts could be significant. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. On June 12, 2009, trading of shares of our common stock began on The NASDAQ Global Market on a “when-issued” basis and has continued on a “regular” basis since July 1, 2009. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will continue or be sustained in the future. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price; however, since our common stock began “regular” trading on The NASDAQ Global Market on July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $3.29 to a high of $6.81. Furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade in the future. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • progress in and results from our clinical trials of MPC-3100; • failure or delays in advancing our preclinical drug candidates, or other drug candidates we may develop in the future, into clinical trials; • results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; • issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or approved products; • regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; • failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations if and when needed, or the issuance of equity securities at prices below the current market price; • public concern over our drug candidates or any approved products; • litigation; • future sales of our common stock; • general market conditions; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. 34 Table of Contents These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Provisions of our charter and bylaws and Delaware law and our shareholder rights agreement, or poison pill, may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of our board be elected at one time; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. We have also implemented a shareholder rights plan (commonly known as a “poison pill”), which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire us on a hostile basis. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. A failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. As a public company, our internal control over financial reporting is required to comply with the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in compliance with the requirements of 35 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Accordingly, we are currently required to document and test our internal controls and procedures to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is currently required to report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective control over financial reporting, such conclusion would be disclosed in this and/or subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses and deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, we will not be able to conclude that we have and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or The NASDAQ Global Market and investors may lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. In addition, testing and maintaining internal control in accordance with Section 404 requires increased management time and resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair the success of our business and harm our financial results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 