Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Evaluation of Strategic Alternatives and Our Business The impact and results of our previously announced strategic direction are uncertain and may not be successful. As announced earlier in 2012, we have suspended development activities with respect to all of our preclinical and clinical programs, and after an evaluation of various strategic alternatives, we have focused our efforts on licensing or acquiring one or more commercial-stage biopharmaceutical assets that are under-performing, with the goal of enhancing their performance and profitability. In May 2012, we announced a change 12 Table of Contents in management to facilitate the pursuit of our new strategic direction, including the appointment of Richard B. Brewer as President and Chief Executive Officer and David W. Gryska as Chief Operating Officer. Messrs. Brewer and Gryska were recruited because of their extensive track record in acquiring and commercializing biopharmaceutical products throughout their careers. During the subsequent months, Messrs. Brewer and Gryska have been actively engaged in identifying and evaluating numerous biopharmaceutical assets for their potential fit with our corporate objectives. On August 15, 2012, we announced the death of Mr. Brewer and the appointment of Mr. Gryska as acting President and Chief Executive Officer while our Board of Directors considers succession plans. In addition, the Board has begun and is continuing a further evaluation of our strategic alternatives in light of Mr. Brewer’s death, progress to date in identifying attractive biopharmaceutical assets, and other factors. The outcome of that further evaluation will be announced upon its completion. Our Board remains dedicated to diligently deliberating upon and making informed decisions that the directors believe are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders. There can be no assurance, however, that the company’s current strategic direction, or the Board’s evaluation of strategic alternatives, will result in any initiatives, agreements, transactions or plans that will enhance shareholder value. One of the strategic alternatives that our Board of Directors could pursue is the dissolution and liquidation of the Company. If our Board of Directors and shareholders were to approve a Plan of Liquidation and Dissolution, we would be required, as part of the liquidation process under Delaware law, to pay our outstanding obligations and to make reasonable provision for contingent obligations, as well as unknown obligations that could arise during the post-dissolution period. While we do not believe that any of our contingent obligations is material, the requirement under Delaware law to make reasonable provision for contingent and unknown obligations would impact the amount and timing of a portion of the distributions in liquidation to our shareholders. Following the death of our President and Chief Executive Officer on August 15, 2012, our Board of Directors has undertaken a review of the range of possible strategic alternatives available to us, including, but not limited to, the dissolution and liquidation of the Company. If our Board of Directors were to approve and recommend, and the shareholders approved, a dissolution and liquidation, we would be required under Delaware law to pay our outstanding obligations, as well as to make reasonable provision for contingent and unknown obligations, prior to making any distributions in liquidation to our shareholders. In particular, as previously disclosed, pursuant to our Separation and Distribution Agreement with our former parent, Myriad Genetics, Inc., at the time of our separation from Myriad Genetics in 2009, we assumed liability for certain pending or threatened legal matters related to our business, and we are obligated to indemnify Myriad Genetics for any liability arising out of such matters, including any costs of litigating such matters. Although we do not believe that any obligation we assumed under the Separation and Distribution Agreement will result in a material liability, we cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of such liability, if any. However, as a result of the requirement under Delaware law that our Board of Directors make reasonable provision for contingent and unknown obligations in connection with a dissolution and liquidation of the Company, a portion of our assets would need to be reserved until the resolution of such matters. This would impact the amount and timing of a portion of the distributions in liquidation to our shareholders. If a dissolution and liquidation were pursued, our Board of Directors, in consultation with its advisors, would need to evaluate these matters and make a determination about a reasonable amount to reserve. We anticipate that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred losses of $31.2 million, $38.7 million and $46.9 million for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect to continue to incur operating expenses and anticipate that we will continue to have losses in the foreseeable future as we pursue our current strategic direction. We expect to 13 Table of Contents continue to incur operating losses and anticipate that we will have net losses for the foreseeable future as we pursue our current strategic direction. Moreover, even if our Board determines to pursue a different strategic alternative, we expect that significant expenses will be involved in implementing any such strategic path, which will further reduce our existing capital. We may never achieve or sustain profitability as a business. We will require additional capital to fund our pursuit and consummation of the acquisition of one or more biopharmaceutical assets. The pursuit of our strategy to acquire one or more under-performing biopharmaceutical assets involves significant management time, effort and associated expense, and if such assets are identified, will require us to incur significant additional expenses to consummate. Moreover, we expect to require substantial additional funding to finance such acquisitions and to optimize the commercialization of such assets, and there can be no assurance that such additional funding will be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may not be able to effectively implement our strategic plan. We may seek to raise any necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We currently have an effective universal shelf registration statement pursuant to which we have $80 million in securities available for sale. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our pursuit of business development opportunities for our suspended clinical and preclinical programs. We are actively pursuing business development opportunities, including out-licenses, for each of our now suspended clinical and preclinical programs. We face significant competition in our pursuit of these opportunities, and any arrangements will likely be complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate any such arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all. The absence of a permanent Chief Executive Officer may disrupt our operations and our future success depends on our ability to attract a highly qualified permanent Chief Executive Officer. Richard B. Brewer, our President and Chief Executive Officer, died on August 15, 2012. David W. Gryska, our Chief Operating Officer, is currently serving as acting President and Chief Executive Officer while the Board of Directors considers succession plans. The appointment of Mr. Brewer as our President and Chief Executive Officer in May 2012 was an integral part of our change in strategic direction, and, unless a suitable replacement can promptly be identified and recruited, his loss will delay and impede our efforts. A search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer may take longer than we expect, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract a permanent Chief Executive Officer on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for such leadership. During this leadership transition, Mr. Gryska will bear substantial additional leadership responsibilities, which may present challenges as we seek to respond to business opportunities and make significant business decisions with a smaller executive team. Any failure to manage this leadership transition successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key executives. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense and we must retain and motivate our key executives. In the aftermath of Richard B. Brewer’s death, we remain even more dependent on David W. Gryska, our Chief Operating Officer and acting President and Chief Executive Officer, and Andrea Kendell, our Chief Financial Officer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain either Mr. Gryska or Ms. Kendell due in part to the fact that the agreements we have entered into with each of them provide for 14 Table of Contents employment that can be terminated by either party without cause at any time. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of either Mr. Gryska or Ms. Kendell in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of either of them may impede our efforts to pursue a new strategic direction. Changes in healthcare policy could adversely affect our business. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, expanded Medicare coverage for drugs purchased by Medicare beneficiaries and introduced new reimbursement methodologies. In addition, this law provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. We do not know what impact the MMA and similar laws will have on the availability of coverage for and the price that we receive for any approved products. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare policies in setting their own reimbursement policies, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in similar reductions by private payors. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the ACA, enacted in March 2010, is expected to result in an increase in the number of people who are covered by both public and private insurance and is also expected to substantially change the way health care is financed by both government health program and private insurers, and significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry. The ACA contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations in ways that may negatively affect our potential revenues in the future. While it is too early to predict all the specific effects the ACA or any future healthcare reform legislation will have on our business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, although the United States Supreme Court recently upheld the constitutionality of most of the ACA, some states have stated their intentions not to implement certain sections of the ACA, and some members of Congress are still working to repeal the ACA. These challenges add to the uncertainty of the changes enacted as part of the ACA. The availability of government reimbursement for prescription drugs is also likely to be impacted by the Budget Control Act of 2011, which was signed into law on August 2, 2011. This law is expected to result in federal spending cuts totaling between $1.2 trillion and $1.5 trillion over the next decade over half of which will include cuts in Medicare and other health related spending. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could incur substantial liability. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which marketing approval has been obtained expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for any approved drug candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • limitations on the commercialization of any approved drug candidates. 15 Table of Contents We have obtained product liability insurance coverage for our previously conducted clinical trials with a $5.0 million annual aggregate coverage limit. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we acquire any approved drug candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property relating to our drug candidates, or if we infringe the rights of others, our ability to successfully commercialize our drug candidates will be harmed. We own or hold licenses to a number of issued patents and U.S. pending patent applications, as well as foreign patents and pending PCT applications and foreign counterparts. As a biopharmaceutical company, our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our intellectual property, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others, and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection for our drug candidates or provide sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are or will be valid or enforceable or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the U.S. Patent Office, for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors or co-owners were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our drug candidates or their use as drugs. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary 16 Table of Contents technologies, drug candidates, and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We license patent rights from third-party owners. Our licenses may be subject to early termination if we fail to comply with our obligations in our licenses with third parties. We are party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property. We may also enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future. Our licensors may terminate their agreements with us in the event we breach the applicable license agreement and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Under our existing license agreements we are obligated to pay the licensor fees, which may include annual license fees, royalties, a percentage of revenues associated with the licensed technology and a percentage of sublicensing revenue. In addition, under our existing license agreements, we are required to diligently pursue the development of products using the licensed technology. If we breach any of the terms of our licenses, the licensors may terminate the agreements. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing drug candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our existing or future patents. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding: • the patentability of our inventions relating to our drug candidates; and/or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our drug candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have infringed patents declared invalid, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages; and/or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our drug candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce 17 Table of Contents and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. On June 12, 2009, trading of shares of our common stock began on The NASDAQ Global Market on a “when-issued” basis and has continued on a “regular” basis since July 1, 2009. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will continue or be sustained in the future. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price; however, since our common stock began “regular” trading on The NASDAQ Global Market on July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2012, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $2.26 to a high of $6.81. Furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade in the future. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • the outcome of our review and evaluation of strategic alternatives; • changes in our business strategy; • regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; • failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations if and when needed, or the issuance of equity securities at prices below the current market price; • the ability to partner, sell or out-license rights to our programs on favorable terms; • litigation; • future sales of our common stock; • general market conditions; • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Provisions of our charter and bylaws and Delaware law and our tax benefits preservation rights plan may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including 18 Table of Contents transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of our board be elected at one time; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. We have also adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Rights Plan in the form of a rights agreement designed to help protect and preserve our substantial tax attributes primarily associated with net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) and research tax credits, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code (the NOL Plan). Although this is not the purpose of the NOL Plan, it could have the effect of making it uneconomical for a third party to acquire us on a hostile basis. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. A failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. As a public company, our internal control over financial reporting is required to comply with the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Accordingly, we are currently required to document and test our internal controls and procedures to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is currently required to report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective control over financial reporting, such conclusion would be disclosed in this and/or subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses and deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. If 19 Table of Contents we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, we will not be able to conclude that we have and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or The NASDAQ Global Market and investors may lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. In addition, testing and maintaining internal control in accordance with Section 404 requires increased management time and resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair the success of our business and harm our financial results. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 