Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Related to Tiger Media’s Business and Operations We have a history of significant operating losses and our future revenue and operating profitability are uncertain. We are not profitable and have incurred significant losses on businesses in each of the last four years and may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We will need to increase revenue in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of operating losses, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve operating profitability on an annual basis. Our failure to achieve profitability could adversely affect the trading prices of our securities and our ability to raise additional capital. Furthermore, we have divested of our historical operations as of December 31, 2012 and expanded our LCD platform for which we have recorded revenue of $3.0 million and $2.9 million (net of VAT and other related surcharges) during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • our ability to expand our operations into the outdoor LCD advertising market; • our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing advertising clients, attract new advertising clients and satisfy our clients’ demands; • the frequency of our clients’ advertisements on our network; • remaining competitive with the pricing and discount strategies of our competitors; • effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate alliances or acquired businesses into our business; • changes in government regulations in relation to the advertising industry; • lower advertising spending immediately following a major holiday season in China; and • economic and geopolitical conditions in China and elsewhere. Many of the factors discussed above are beyond our control, making our results difficult to predict from period to period. Although we did not experience significant seasonality in our business, except for generally lower sales in periods immediately following major holiday seasons historically, you should not rely on our operating results for prior periods as an indication of our future results. If our revenues for a particular period are lower than expected, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that period by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that period relative to our operating results from other periods. Deterioration of economic conditions and a resulting decrease in demand for advertising services would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. Demand for our advertising services, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients on our network, is affected significantly by prevailing economic conditions. The current economic conditions in global markets have impacted, and are expected to further impact, 15 Table of Contents materially and adversely, the advertising spending of our existing and potential multinational clients and, as the crisis spreads to China, the advertising spending of our existing and potential domestic clients. With a severe decline in economic conditions, clients who would normally spend on a broad range of traditional and new media may curtail their overall spending or concentrate their advertising spending on one medium. A decrease in demand for advertising media in general and for our advertising media or advertising networks in particular would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. In addition, our clients who are adversely affected by the deteriorating economic conditions may delay paying the advertising fees to us, which would adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. A business strategy of making acquisitions subjects us to all of the risks inherent in identifying, acquiring and operating newly acquired businesses. Our growth strategy includes acquiring new businesses to complement and expand our existing operations. In the future, we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that we believe could complement or expand our current business or offer growth opportunities. We may experience difficulties in identifying potential acquisition candidates that complement our current business at appropriate prices, or at all. Many of our competitors may also compete with us for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price of acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful and we may expend significant management time and resources in analyzing and negotiating acquisitions or investments that are not consummated. Furthermore, the ongoing process of integrating acquired businesses is distracting, time consuming, expensive, and requires continuous optimization and allocation of resources. Additionally, if we use stock as consideration, this would have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. If we use cash, this would reduce our liquidity and impact our financial flexibility. We may seek debt financing for particular acquisitions, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We face all the risks associated with a business acquisition strategy, including: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses, including the diversion of management attention and the redeployment of resources; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • failure to identify in due diligence key issues specific to the businesses we seek to acquire or the industries or other environments in which they operate, or, failure to protect against contingent liabilities arising from those issues; • unforeseen or hidden or fraudulent liabilities; • difficulties in integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations which will likely be geographically separated and may involve diverse business operations and corporate cultures; • difficulties in integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • potential loss of key employees, clients or distribution partners of the acquired businesses; • difficulties in incorporating the acquired business into our organization; • the potential loss of customers, distributors or suppliers; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with our advertisers; • difficulties in integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; • the potential for future impairments of goodwill if the acquired business does not perform as expected; • the inability to obtain necessary government approvals for the acquisition, if any; and • successfully operating the acquired business. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. 16 Table of Contents We face significant competition for advertising spending from operators of new and traditional advertising networks. If we cannot successfully compete, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We face competition for general advertising spending from operators of many other forms of advertising networks, such as television, print media, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising. Our success depends on the continuing and increased interest of advertising clients and agencies in, iScreen Outdoor LCD screens, outdoor billboard, and furniture display as components of their advertising strategies. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that the viewing public is not receptive to advertising platforms we offer or that these platforms do not provide sufficient value as effective advertising mediums. If we cannot successfully compete for advertising spending against traditional, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to operate our business, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For our iScreen Outdoor LCD advertising platform, our offer of a network of large-sized outdoor LCD screens is unique and, at this time, does not have a direct competitor. Our competitors can offer only a few screens in scattered locations. We also compete against other seasoned operators and new digital media platforms. For billboard advertising spending, we face competition from different companies across different platforms and in different cities where we do not have media resources. For our billboard advertising platform, we compete against mostly local or regional outdoor billboard owners and operators, as the outdoor billboard market in China is largely fragmented. We compete for advertising spending on these platforms generally on the basis of network coverage, service quality and brand name. If we cannot compete successfully for advertising spending on these platforms, our market share and our results of operations would suffer. We have limiting to no competition for the furniture display business since we have a contractual agreement signed with Home Inns. If we are unable to attract advertisers for our networks, we will be unable to maintain or increase our advertising fees and the demand for time on our networks, which could negatively affect our ability to grow revenues. The amounts of fees we can charge advertisers for time slots on our iScreen Outdoor LCD advertising network and traditional billboard network depend on the size and quality of these networks and the demand by advertisers for advertising time on these networks. Advertisers choose to advertise on these networks in part based on the size of the networks and the desirability of the locations where we have placed and represented. If we fail to maintain or increase the number of locations, displays and billboards in our networks, diversify advertising channels in our networks, or solidify our brand name and reputation as a quality provider of advertising services, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase time on our networks or to pay the levels of advertising fees we require to remain profitable. Our failure to attract advertisers to purchase time slots on our networks will reduce demand for time slots we are able to sell, which could necessitate lowering the fees we charge for advertising time on our network and could negatively affect our ability to increase revenues in the future. We rely on a small number of suppliers for our iScreen Outdoor LCD network equipment. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain components of the equipment used in our iScreen Outdoor LCD network. The majority of our LCD display equipment, along with the installation into shopping malls and business centers, in terms or dollars spent, was purchased from a limited number of suppliers. If, as a result of a change in our relationship with our suppliers, for any reason, we can no longer obtain LCD display equipment in the same quantities, or at all, or on favorable terms, we will need to find other suppliers for our LCD display equipment. Such alternative suppliers may not be able to provide equipment of the same or comparable quality as our existing suppliers, may not be as reliable or responsive to our purchase orders and requests, or may otherwise not provide the same level of service as our existing suppliers. As a result, if we are no longer able to source equipment from our current suppliers, our maintenance, enhancement and expansion of our business may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with site owners, managers and sublessors that provide us access to desirable locations and network platforms, our growth potential and our business could be harmed. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely on our ability to provide a large network of our media products across media platforms at desirable locations. The effectiveness of our network also depends on the cooperation of site owners and managers to allow us to install the desired types of media at the desired spots on their properties. To address these needs, we must develop and maintain business relationships with site managers and owners and, for a portion of our network, sublessors that consist primarily of advertising companies. Since the ownership of shopping malls is fragmented, maintaining these relationships requires considerable operational resources in terms of contract management and site development and maintenance personnel. If we fail to devote the necessary resources to maintaining these relationships or if we fail to perform our obligations under the existing leases, these lessors and sublessors may terminate their leases with us or not renew them upon expiration. In some cases, we have not maintained good relations and some of our leases have been terminated or may be terminated in the future. Failures to obtain site owners’ consents or objections from site owners to the installations of our media products could lead to termination of our contracts or installations, which would harm our results of operations. Applicable laws and regulations require that we obtain the consent of the owners of the properties on which we install our media products. While we generally take all reasonable efforts to execute display agreements with site owners or owner committees before installing our media products, when we cannot locate all site owners or an owner committee has not been established, we execute display agreements with site managers. Where we do not have site-owners’ consents, these owners may seek to terminate our agreements or seek the removal of our installations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, senior management and other key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily on the continued services of our executive officers, especially our Co-CEO, Peter W. H. Tan, senior management and other key employees, their industry expertise, their experience in business operations, sales and marketing, and their working relationships with our advertising clients as well as the site owners, property developers, property management companies, and relevant government authorities that affect the site contracts with us. We do not have a long history of working with some of these executive officers, senior management and key employees. If one or more of our senior executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, site contracts, and key professionals and staff members. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers, which agreement contains non-competition provisions. However, if a dispute arises between us and our executive officers, there is no assurance that any of these agreements could be enforced, or to what extent they could be enforced, in China, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. If we are unable to adapt to changing advertising trends of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues, which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and revenues. The competitive market for out-of-home advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends of advertisers and consumers. In response to these new advertising trends, we may need to quickly develop and adopt new formats, features and enhancements for our advertising network and/or cost-effectively expand into additional advertising media and platforms beyond, billboards, shopping mall outdoor LCDs and furniture display advertising. We may be required to incur, but may not have the financial resources necessary to fund, development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new advertising trends. If we fail to identify or respond adequately to these changing advertising trends, demand for our advertising network and services may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. 18 Table of Contents Our growth could suffer if we fail to expand our media networks to include new media offerings, media platforms or enter into new markets. Currently, our network primarily consists of iScreen Outdoor LCD screens, outdoor billboards and street furniture. Our growth strategy includes broadening our service offerings and possibly entering into new advertising markets. It is difficult to predict whether consumers and advertising clients will accept our entry into new media markets or accept the new media products or platforms we may offer. It is also difficult to predict whether we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs of entering into these new markets or introducing these new products or new media platforms. We may also have limited or no prior experience working with these new products, platforms or markets. If we fail to expand our media network to include new media products, platforms or markets, our growth could suffer as a result. If site managers or owners shut down our displays for site maintenance or other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. Under certain site leasing contracts we entered into with site managers or owners, site managers or owners have the right to shut down our displays with prior written notice if they need to inspect or maintain the sites where we have installed advertising displays, or for other reasons such as facility reconstruction. However, under our contracts with our advertising clients, if these displays are shut down for an extended period of time, we are required to substitute these suspended displays with alternative displays. If we cannot reach an agreement with our clients on the alternative displays, we could be required to refund the advertising fees paid by these clients. If a substantial number of our displays are shut down by site managers within a short time period, we may not be able to locate alternative display locations and may incur substantial remedial costs. Our relationships with our advertising clients could also suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected. We rely on the proper operation and maintenance of our computer system. Any malfunction, capacity constraint, unauthorized illegal hacking or usage, or operation interruption for any extended period may have an adverse impact on our business. The satisfactory performance, stability, and security of our computer system and our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain advertisers. Our information system provides a database of information regarding advertising records and various other facets of the business to assist management and to help ensure effective communication among various departments and offices of our Company. Accordingly, any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, stability, security and availability of our computer system may cause significant harm to our reputation and to our advertisers’ interest in advertising their products. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within or outside our control, could reduce the attractiveness and availability of our product offerings. Our computer systems are also susceptible to damage from computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunication failures, computer hacking, and similar events. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our network systems or other assets. As a result, any capacity constraints or operation interruptions for any extended period may have a materially adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including corporate chops and seals fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including contracts such as the leases and sales contracts that our business relies on, are executed using the chops or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with Administration of Industry and Commerce, or AIC. Although we usually utilize chops to enter into contracts, the registered legal representatives of each of our PRC operating subsidiaries have the apparent authority to enter into contracts on behalf of such entities without chops. Currently, the designated legal representative of our PRC subsidiaries is a senior level member of management. Accordingly, there is a risk that the registered legal representatives of each of our PRC operating subsidiaries could abuse their authority, for example, by binding the Company with contracts against the Company’s interest or intentions which could result in economic harm or damages as a result of any contractual obligations, or resulting disputes that might arise. If the party contracting with the Company did not act in good faith under such circumstances, then we could incur costs to nullify such contracts. 19 Table of Contents We rely on the Company’s seals, financial chops and business licenses of our PRC entities for entering into contracts, conducting banking business, or taking official corporate action of any sort including registering any change to the composition of the board of directors or management with the relevant PRC authorities. In order to maintain the physical security of our chops, seals and business licenses and other controlling intangible assets, we generally store these items in secured locations accessible only by the authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments. Although we monitor such authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments, there is no assurance such procedures may be able to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. Accordingly, if any of our authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments obtain and misuse or misappropriate our corporate chops, seals, business licenses or other controlling intangible assets, we could incur economic damage and disruption to our operations that may necessitate corporate or legal action. Such corporate or legal action could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations. In particular, during any period were we lose effective control of the corporate activities as a result of such misuse or misappropriation, the business activities of the affected entity could be disrupted and we could lose the economic benefits of that aspect of our business which may negatively impact our business and reputation. We have no business liability, disruption or litigation insurance, and we could incur substantial costs if our business is disrupted due to natural disasters, litigation or other business interruptions. We have no property insurance against accidental occurrences or disruptive actions, and we could incur substantial costs if our business is disrupted due to accidental occurrences or disruptive actions. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption coverage for our operations in China. All industries are subject to legal claims. As a public company, we are particularly susceptible to securities and derivative lawsuits. These claims may be costly to defend and divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Our iScreen Outdoor LCD screens, billboards and street furniture may be insured for third-party liability and commercial general property insurance, but insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer property insurance against accidental occurrences or disruptive actions. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to damages caused by accidental occurrences or disruptive actions, and any material accidental occurrences or disruptive actions may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Risks Relating to Doing Business in the People’s Republic of China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Before the Merger, all of our business operations were conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations or the government’s control over capital investments and foreign currencies. As the PRC economy is increasingly linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent financial and economic crises. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and 20 Table of Contents expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The various economic and policy measures enacted by the PRC government to forestall economic downturns or shore up the PRC economy may not succeed and our business could be negatively affected as a result. If advertising registration certificates are not obtained for advertisements on our iScreen Outdoor LCD or outdoor billboard networks, we may be subject to fines. On May 22, 2006, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC amended the Provisions on the Registration Administration of Outdoor Advertisements, or the new outdoor advertisement provisions. Pursuant to the new outdoor advertisement provisions, advertisements placed on posters, digital displays, light boxes, neon lights via outdoor premises, space, or facilities, are treated as outdoor advertisements and must be registered in accordance with the local SAIC by “advertising distributors” and advertising registration certificates must be obtained. After review and examination, if an application complies with the requirements, the local SAIC will issue an Outdoor Advertising Registration Certificate for such advertisement. The content, format, specifications, periods and locations of dissemination of the outdoor advertisement must be submitted for filing with the local SAIC. We require advertisers to apply for and obtain the registration certificates for their advertisements. If an advertiser displays an advertisement without the requisite registration, the relevant local SAICs may require us to disgorge advertising revenues and may impose fines up to RMB30,000 (approximately USD4,903) on us. Our iScreen Outdoor LCD screens, outdoor billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to municipal zoning requirements, governmental approvals and administrative controls. If we are required to tear down our iScreen Outdoor LCD screens, billboards, light boxes or neon signs as a result of these requirements, approvals or controls, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our iScreen Outdoor LCD screens, billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to local regulations which may impose detailed requirements regarding municipal zoning requirements and governmental approvals. Each outdoor placement and installation may require a license with specific terms of use. If we, or our lessors or sublessors, violate the terms of the license for the relevant placement and installation for a LCD screen, billboard, light box or neon sign, we could be required to tear it down. We may also be required to tear it down as result of changes of municipal zoning requirements or actions taken by local authorities for city beautification, clean-up or other purposes. If we lose a significant number of iScreen Outdoor LCD screens, billboards, light boxes and/or neon signs as a result, our business operations would be materially and adversely impacted. Moreover, if we are unable to perform our advertising contracts as a result of these losses, we may incur remedial costs and our relationships with our advertising clients and financial results could be harmed as a result. If we were deemed a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we could be subject to tax on our global income and our non-PRC shareholders could be subject to certain PRC taxes. Under the New PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law effective January 1, 2008, or the EIT law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise” and will be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementing rules of the EIT law define “de facto management” as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. If we were to be considered a “resident enterprise” by the PRC tax authorities, our global income would be subject to tax under the EIT law at the rate of 25% and, to the extent we were to generate a substantial amount of income outside of the PRC in the future, we would be subject to additional taxes. In addition, if we were to be considered a “resident enterprise,” any dividends we were pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to withholding tax and our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to a 10% income tax on any gains they would realize from the transfer of their shares, if such income were sourced from within the PRC. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, no final interpretations on the implementation of the “resident enterprise” designation are available for companies such as ours. Moreover, any such designation, when made by PRC tax authorities, will be determined based on the facts and circumstances of individual cases. As a result, we cannot currently determine the likelihood of the Company being designated a “resident enterprise”. 21 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after a violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the content and services we provide through our network. As an operator of an advertising medium, we are obligated under PRC law to monitor the advertising content displayed on our network for compliance with applicable law. Although the advertisements displayed on our network may have been previously displayed over public media, we may be required to separately and independently vet these advertisements for content compliance before displaying them on our networks. In addition, for advertising content related to certain types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, estates and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertiser’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filings with the local authorities. Any failure to strictly abide by applicable requirements regarding content, pre-approval, or proper filings could result in fines up to RMB30,000 (approximately USD4,903), confiscation of advertising earnings, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. Moreover, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our network. If consumers find the content displayed on our network to be offensive, site managers and owners may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims against them or may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached and unauthorized images or text are displayed on our network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images or text to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure, and harm our reputation. If our viewers do not believe our content is reliable and accurate, our business model may become less appealing to them and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our network. Government censure, investigation or any other government action, or any civil suits against us could divert management time and resources and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Governmental control of currency conversion may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantial limitations may be imposed on the removal of funds from the PRC to the Company, or the infusion of funds by us to our subsidiaries located in the PRC. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government 22 Table of Contents authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our parent, the Company. As dividends from Chinese operations will be the primary source of revenue production for us, failure to be able to receive such dividends could materially and adversely impact the value of your Company shares and could make it impossible for us to meet our cash flow requirements. On August 29, 2008, SAFE, promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. When applying for the conversion of foreign exchange in “capital account”, such as foreign exchange received from capital contribution or loans, into RMB, the company is required, except for small amount conversions not exceeding US$50,000 for daily expenses, to submit to the bank the relevant documents supporting such conversion, such as the business contracts, related RMB payment notice, and documents evidencing the use of funds previously converted from foreign exchange in its capital account. Further, SAFE Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the company’s business scope approved and registered with the local SAIC authority, and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. As a result, SAFE Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to effectively convert any US dollar infusion of funds from our off-shore company into RMB to be used by our subsidiaries located in the PRC. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may prevent us from making loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, any loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance the activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our wholly-owned subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese RMB appreciated approximately 1.0%, 3.1%, 5.1%, 0.2%, 3% and 0.4% against the U.S. dollar in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government will adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of Chinese RMB against the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in Renminbi. Thus, a resumption of the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would, for instance, further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as we may rely on dividends and other distributions paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, any significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our shares of common 23 Table of Contents stock or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Any fluctuation of the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign current translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Voting control by executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the Company may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring shareholder approval. The executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the Company beneficially own approximately 39.2% of our voting shares as of April 1, 2015. These shareholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of shares of common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Risks Related to the Merger The failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Tiger Media and TBO in the expected timeframe would adversely affect the combined company’s future results and the market price of the combined company’s common stock following the completion of the Merger. The success of the Merger will depend, in large part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger. To realize such benefits, the combined company must successfully integrate Tiger Media’s and TBO’s respective businesses. This integration will be complex and time-consuming. The failure to successfully integrate and manage the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company’s failure to achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: • Complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; • Integrating effectively the financial and internal control systems and procedures of the combined companies; • Integrating personnel from the two companies; • The loss of key employees; • Potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the Merger; • Performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the Merger and integrating the companies’ operations; and • The differences in the businesses of Tiger Media and TBO may make integration more difficult as well as not having the efficiencies which may arise if the businesses were similar. The occurrence of or failure to achieve any of these matters could adversely affect the ability of the combined company to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and employees or the combined company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger could be adversely affected, the combined company’s earnings could be reduced, or the combined company’s business and financial results could be adversely affected, any of which could adversely affect the market price of the combined company’s common stock. The combined company’s future results will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the Merger. Following the Merger, the size of the combined company’s business will be larger than the current businesses of Tiger Media and TBO. The combined company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for the combined company’s management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. We cannot assure you that the combined company will be successful or that the combined company will realize the expected operating efficiencies, annual net operating synergies, revenue enhancements and other benefits currently anticipated to result from the Merger. 24 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The success of the Merger will depend in part on the combined company’s ability to retain key Tiger Media and TBO employees who continue employment with the combined company after the Merger is completed. These employees might decide not to remain with the combined company after the Merger is completed. If these key employees terminate their employment, the combined company’s activities might be adversely affected, management’s attention might be diverted from successfully integrating TBO’s operations to recruiting suitable replacements and the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the combined company might not be able to locate suitable replacements for any such key employees who leave the combined company or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms. The success of the combined company will also depend on relationships with third parties and pre-existing customers of Tiger Media and TBO, which relationships may be affected by customer preferences or public attitudes about the Merger. Any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The combined company’s success will be dependent on the ability to maintain and renew pre-existing business relationships of both Tiger Media and TBO and to establish new business relationships. There can be no assurance that the business of the combined company will be able to maintain pre-existing customer contracts of Tiger Media or TBO and other business relationships of Tiger Media or TBO, or enter into or maintain new customer contracts and other business relationships, on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to maintain important customer and other business relationships could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined company. The combined company may incur significant expenses in connection with the integration of the two companies. The combined company may incur significant expenses in connection with the integration of the two companies, including integrating personnel, information technology systems, accounting systems, vendors and strategic partners of each company and implementing consistent standards, policies, and procedures. The market price of the combined company’s common stock may decline as a result of the Merger. The market price of the combined company’s common stock may decline as a result of the Merger for a number of reasons, including if: • the combined company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the Merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated; • the effect of the Merger on the combined company’s business and prospects is not consistent with the expectations of industry analysts; or • investors react negatively to the effect of the Merger on the combined company’s business and prospects. The price of Company Common Stock after the Merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the shares of Tiger Media prior to the completion of the Merger. Upon completion of the Merger, holders of TBO Common Stock became holders of Company Common Stock. The business of Tiger Media differs from the business of TBO in important respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the price of its common stock following the completion of the Merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of Tiger Media and TBO. 25 Table of Contents The Merger could have an adverse effect on Tiger Media’s and TBO’s businesses, financial conditions, results of operations, reputations and business prospects. Our efforts to integrate following the Merger could cause substantial disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Among other things, uncertainty as to the integration of Tiger Media and TBO may affect our ability to recruit prospective employees or to retain and motivate existing employees. Employee retention may be particularly challenging because employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. Uncertainty as to our post-Merger future could adversely affect our business, reputation and relationships with potential customers. For example, vendors and others that deal with Tiger Media or TBO could defer decisions concerning working with such combined company, or seek to change existing business relationships with such company. Further, a substantial amount of attention of our management and employees is being directed toward integration following completion of the Merger and thus is being diverted from day-to-day operations because matters related to the Merger (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources. Our Corporate Effective Tax Rate may increase as a result of the Domestication. In connection with the Domestication, we will become subject to U.S. tax on our worldwide income and capital gains and our corporate effective tax rate may be significantly higher, which could materially impact our financial results, including our earnings and cash flow, for periods after the Domestication. Our prior jurisdiction of incorporation, the Cayman Islands, does not currently impose an income tax. If we remained incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we generally would be taxed in the U.S. only on income that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the U.S. (“effectively connected income”), and other non-effectively connected income that is sourced in the U.S., subject to certain exceptions. If we had remained incorporated in the Cayman Islands, income after the Merger from the conduct of business activities that TBO currently conducts would still have been subject to tax in the U.S. because it would constitute effectively connected income. The highest statutory corporate tax rate for U.S. federal income tax purposes is currently 35%. State-level taxes, to the extent applicable, would be in addition to federal taxes. Our effective tax rate for purposes of financial reporting may, however, vary significantly from the statutory rates under which we operate (including the U.S. statutory rate that would apply after the Domestication) because of, among other things, timing differences in the recognition of income and expense for U.S. GAAP and tax purposes, and differences in how each jurisdiction in which we operate treats the same item of income or expense. We are unable to predict the impact of the Domestication on our effective tax rate going forward. In addition, the tax laws of the United States and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and those changes could cause a material increase in our effective tax rate at a later date as well. Risks Related to TBO and Interactive Data Business and Operations We may not have sufficient cash to operate our business. Additional equity or debt offerings to fund future operations may not be available and, if available, may significantly dilute the value of their currently outstanding common stock. We expect to fund operations through current cash and company profits. Subject to revenue growth, Tiger Media may have to raise private equity and or debt, which, if they are able to obtain, will have the effect of diluting existing common and preferred stockholders. Any equity or debt financings, if available at all, may be on terms which are not favorable to Tiger Media. If our operations do not generate positive cash flow in the upcoming year, or if the Tiger Media is not able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on terms and conditions acceptable to it, if at all, we may be unable to implement our business plan, or even continue its operations. 26 Table of Contents To achieve sustainable profitability, Interactive Data must continue to generate increased revenue. Interactive Data needs to generate greater revenue from the sales of its products if it is to sustain profitability. If Interactive Data is unable to generate greater revenue, net losses may return and it may never be able to sustain profitability or generate positive cash flow from operations in the future. Interactive Data faces intense competition from both start-up and established companies that may have significant advantages over it and its products. The market for Interactive Data’s products and services is intensely competitive. There are numerous companies competing with Interactive Data in various segments of the data fusion industry, and their products and services may have advantages over Interactive Data’s products and services in areas such as conformity to existing and emerging industry standards, performance, price, ease of use, scalability, reliability, flexibility, product features and technical support. Interactive Data’s principal competitors in the data fusion industry include LexisNexis, TransUnion, Thomson Reuters, Experian and Equifax. Current and potential competitors may have one or more of the following significant advantages: • greater financial, technical and marketing resources; • better name recognition; • more comprehensive solutions; • better or more extensive cooperative relationships; and • larger customer base. Interactive Data cannot assure you that it will be able to compete successfully with its existing or new competitors. Some of Interactive Data’s competitors may have, in relation to Interactive Data, one or more of the following: longer operating histories, longer-standing relationships with end-user customers and greater customer service, public relations and other resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to more quickly develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. Additionally, it is likely that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. If Interactive Data’s newer products do not achieve market acceptance, revenue growth may suffer. Interactive Data’s identity verification products have been in the market place for a limited period of time and may have longer sales cycles than its previous products. Accordingly, Interactive Data may not achieve the meaningful revenue growth needed to sustain operations. Interactive Data cannot provide any assurances that sales of its newer products will continue to grow or generate sufficient revenues to sustain its business. If Interactive Data is unable to recognize revenues due to longer sales cycles or other problems, its results of operations will be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Interactive Data has not yet received broad market acceptance for its newer products. Interactive Data cannot assure that its present or future products will achieve market acceptance on a sustained basis. In order to achieve market acceptance and achieve future revenue growth, Interactive Data must introduce complementary products, incorporate new technologies into existing product lines and design, and develop and successfully commercialize higher performance products in a timely manner. Interactive Data cannot assure that it will be able to offer new or complementary products that gain market acceptance quickly enough to avoid decreased revenues during current or future product introductions or transitions. 27 Table of Contents Interactive Data resembles a developmental stage company and its business strategy may not be successful. Historically, Interactive Data has provided data solutions and services to the Accounts Receivable Management industry for location and identity verification, legislative compliance and debt recovery. Now, Interactive Data is targeting the entirety of the risk management market, including expansion into Fair Credit Reporting Act regulated data and non-regulated data, with new products and services. Interactive Data can provide no assurances that its newly introduced products and services will ever achieve widespread market acceptance or that an adequate market for these products and services will ever emerge. Consequently, Interactive Data resembles a developmental stage company and will face the following inherent risks and uncertainties: • the need for Interactive Data’s identity verification and risk management products and services to achieve market acceptance and produce a sustainable revenue stream; • Interactive Data’s ability to manage costs and expenses; • Interactive Data’s ability to secure, and dependence on key personnel; • Interactive Data’s ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms; and • Interactive Data’s ability to offer greater value than our competitors. Interactive Data’s business strategy may not successfully address these risks. If it fails to recognize significant revenues from the sales of new products and services, business, financial condition and operating results would be materially adversely affected. If Interactive Data fails to respond to rapid technological changes in the data fusion industry, it may lose customers and/or its products and/or services may become obsolete. The data fusion industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent product introductions, and continued evolution of new industry standards. Interactive Data must also introduce upgrades to its products and services rapidly in response to customer needs. As a result, Interactive Data’s success depends upon its ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services and enhancements to its existing products and services that meet changing customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The development of technologically advanced product solutions is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, rapid response and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Interactive Data cannot assure you that it will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products and services successfully in a timely manner. Further, Interactive Data or its competitors may introduce new products or services or product enhancements that shorten the life cycle of existing products or services or cause existing products or services to become obsolete. Interactive Data’s products and services are highly technical and if they contain undetected errors, its business could be adversely affected and may have to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of its products and services. Interactive Data’s products and services are highly technical and complex. Its products and services have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in Interactive Data’s products and services may only be discovered after a product or service has been used by end customers. Any errors or security vulnerabilities discovered in Interactive Data’s products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, or loss of customers, any of which could adversely affect its business and results of operations. In addition, Interactive Data could face claims for product liability or breach of personally identifiable information. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention. In addition, if Interactive Data’s business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, its financial condition could be harmed. A breach of network security could harm public perception of Interactive Data’s products and services, which could cause it to lose revenues. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to Interactive Data’s network security controls, the market perception of the effectiveness of Interactive Data’s network security could be harmed resulting in loss of current and potential end user customers, data suppliers, or cause Interactive Data to lose potential value-added resellers. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, Interactive Data may be unable to anticipate these techniques. If an actual or perceived breach were to occur, Interactive Data cannot assure that it would not lose revenue or not sustain operating losses as a result. 28 Table of Contents Interactive Data’s products and services can have long sales and implementation cycles, which may result in substantial expenses before realizing any associated revenues. The sale and implementation of Interactive Data’s data products and services to large companies and government entities typically involves a lengthy education process and a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources. This process is also subject to the risk of delays associated with customers’ internal budgeting and other procedures for approving capital expenditures, testing and accepting new technologies that affect key operations. As a result, sales and implementation cycles for Interactive Data’s data products and services can be lengthy, and Interactive Data may expend significant time and resources before it receives any revenues from a customer or potential customer. Interactive Data’s quarterly and annual operating results could be materially harmed if orders forecast for a specific customer and for a particular period are not realized. Consolidation in the data fusion industry may limit market acceptance of Interactive Data’s products and services. Several of Interactive Data’s competitors have acquired companies with complementary technologies in the past. Interactive Data expects consolidation in the data fusion industry to continue in the future. These acquisitions may permit Interactive Data’s competitors to accelerate the development and commercialization of broader product lines and more comprehensive solutions than Interactive Data currently offers. Acquisitions of vendors or other companies with which Interactive Data has a strategic relationship by its competitors may limit its access to commercially significant technologies. Further, business combinations in the data fusion industry are creating companies with larger market shares, customer bases, sales forces, product offerings and technology and marketing expertise, which may make it more difficult for Interactive Data to compete. Interactive Data must adequately protect its intellectual property in order to prevent loss of valuable proprietary information. Interactive Data relies primarily upon a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure agreements to protect its proprietary technology. However, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of Interactive Data’s products or services or to obtain and use information that it regards as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of Interactive Data’s products or services is difficult, and Interactive Data cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will prevent misappropriation of its intellectual property. If the protection of Interactive Data’s intellectual property proves to be inadequate or unenforceable, others may be able to use its proprietary developments without compensation to Interactive Data, resulting in potential cost advantages to its competitors. Interactive Data may incur substantial expenses defending itself against claims of infringement. There are numerous patents held by many companies relating to the design and manufacture of data solutions. Third parties may claim that Interactive Data’s products and/or services infringe on their intellectual property rights. Any claim, with or without merit, could consume management’s time, result in costly litigation, cause delays in sales or implementations of products or services or require entry into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty and licensing agreements, if required and available, may be on terms unacceptable to Interactive Data or detrimental to its business. Moreover, a successful claim of product infringement against Interactive Data or its failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on commercially reasonable terms could seriously harm its business. Interactive Data’s acquisition of complementary products or businesses may adversely affect its financial condition. Interactive Data may acquire or invest in companies, business units, product lines or technologies to accelerate the development of products and sales channels complementary to its existing products and sales channels. Negotiation of potential acquisitions and integration of acquired products, technologies or businesses could divert management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions could cause Interactive Data to issue equity securities that would dilute the then-current ownership of the Company, incur debt or contingent liabilities, amortize intangible assets or write off in-process research and development, goodwill and other acquisition-related expenses that could seriously harm Interactive Data’s financial condition and operating results. Further, if Interactive Data is not able to properly integrate acquired products, technologies or businesses with existing products and operations, train, retain and motivate personnel from the acquired business or combine potentially different corporate cultures, it may not receive the intended benefits of such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its business, operating results and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Compliance with laws, rules, or regulations may adversely affect Interactive Data’s financial condition Interactive Data’s business is subject to various federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations, including, without limitation, the Driver’s Privacy Protection Act (18 U.S.C. §§ 2721-2725) (“DPPA”) and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 6801-6809) (“GLBA”). A change in any one of a number of the laws, rules, or regulations applicable to Interactive Data s business and/or the enactment of future legislation could have a material adverse effect on Interactive Data’s financial condition and its ability to provide products or services to customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 