D. Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business and Operations We have a history of significant operating losses and our future revenue and operating profitability are uncertain. We are not profitable and have incurred significant losses in each of the last four years and may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We will need to increase revenue in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of operating losses, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve operating profitability on an annual basis. Our failure to achieve profitability could adversely affect the trading prices of our securities and our ability to raise additional capital. Furthermore, we have divested of our historical operations as of December 31, 2012 and expanded our LCD platform for which we have recorded no revenue during the year ended December 31, 2012. 4 Table of Contents Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing advertising clients, attract new advertising clients and satisfy our clients’ demands; • the frequency of our clients’ advertisements on our network; • remaining competitive with the pricing strategies of our competitors; • effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate alliances or acquired businesses into our business; • changes in government regulations in relation to the advertising industry; • lower advertising spending immediately following a major holiday season in China; and • economic and geopolitical conditions in China and elsewhere. Many of the factors discussed above are beyond our control, making our results difficult to predict from period to period. Although we did not experience significant seasonality in our business, except for generally lower sales in periods immediately following major holiday seasons historically, you should not rely on our operating results for prior periods as an indication of our future results. If our revenues for a particular period are lower than expected, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that period by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that period relative to our operating results from other periods. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we have had to restate our historical financial statements. In August 2010, we announced that we would restate the financial statements of SearchMedia International as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008, to, among other things, correct an overstatement of revenue of $47.0 million in 2008. We restated our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the SEC on November 1, 2010. After the Business Combination and in connection with our preparation of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed November 1, 2010, we identified accounting irregularities and potential financial and operational improprieties, relating to transactions and financial reporting matters that occurred under the management of SearchMedia International before the Business Combination, which were not previously identified as a result of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses related to, among other things: (i) recording of various erroneous transactions by certain employees; (ii) recording of certain assets and other accounting irregularities related to acquisitions; (iii) diligence and approval of questionable transactions; and (iv) confirmation of payments related to acquisitions. We have and will continue to implement the following measures to remediate these material weaknesses: (a) hire additional financial reporting and accounting personnel or external tax consultant with relevant experience, skills, and knowledge in the preparation of financial statements under the requirements of U.S. GAAP; (b) hire external consultants to improve the process for collecting and reviewing information required for the preparation of financial statements; (c) enhance our accounting and finance policy and procedure manuals to provide guidance to our finance and accounting staff and develop tools or checklists to improve the completeness and accuracies of financial disclosures, and (d) invest in IT infrastructure and build an integrated financial systems to improve closing process. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address these control weaknesses, and to date these control weaknesses have not been remediated in full. If we fail to implement and maintain the adequate internal control procedures in a timely manner, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, we cannot be certain we will effectively remediate our control weaknesses or that restatements will not occur in the future. The preparation and filing of restatements could create a significant strain on our internal resources and cause delays in our filing of annual financial results, increase our financial accounting and related costs, and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. We are subject to a government inquiry in the United States. In November, 2010, we were notified that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional Office, was conducting a formal investigation regarding the issues that were the subject of our restatement of financial results announced on August 20, 2010. We are cooperating fully with the SEC during this investigation process. We cannot predict the cost or potential liabilities associated with responding to the SEC investigation or any related investigations or litigation that may arise from the matters under inquiry. Litigation and regulatory actions or proceedings can be time consuming and expensive, and divert management time and attention from our business. We cannot provide any assurance that the final outcome of the SEC investigation or any related litigation that may arise will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Deterioration of economic conditions and a resulting decrease in demand for advertising services would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. Demand for our advertising services, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients on our network, is affected significantly by prevailing economic conditions. The current economic downturns in global markets have impacted, and are expected to further impact, materially and adversely, the advertising spending of our existing and potential multinational clients and, as the crisis spreads to China, the advertising spending of our existing and potential domestic clients. With a severe decline in economic conditions, clients who would normally spend on a broad range of traditional and new media may curtail their overall spending or concentrate their advertising spending on one medium. A decrease in demand for advertising media in general and for our advertising media or advertising networks in particular would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. In addition, our clients who are adversely affected by the worsened economic conditions may delay paying the advertising fees to us, which would adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. A business strategy of making acquisitions subjects us to all of the risks inherent in identifying, acquiring and operating newly acquired businesses. Our growth strategy includes acquiring new businesses to complement and expand our existing operations. In the future, we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that we believe could complement or expand our current business or offer growth opportunities. We may experience difficulties in identifying potential acquisition candidates that complement our current business at appropriate prices, or at all. Many of our competitors may also compete with us for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price of acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful and we may expend significant management time and resources in analyzing and negotiating acquisitions or investments that are not consummated. Furthermore, the ongoing process of integrating acquired businesses is distracting, time consuming, expensive, and requires continuous optimization and allocation of resources. 5 Table of Contents Additionally, if we use stock as consideration, this would have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. If we use cash, this would reduce our liquidity and impact our financial flexibility. We may seek debt financing for particular acquisitions, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We face all the risks associated with a business acquisition strategy, including: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses, including the diversion of management attention and the redeployment of resources; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • failure to identify in due diligence key issues specific to the businesses we seek to acquire or the industries or other environments in which they operate, or, failure to protect against contingent liabilities arising from those issues; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • difficulties in integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations which will likely be geographically separated and may involve diverse business operations and corporate cultures; • difficulties in integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • potential loss of key employees, clients or distribution partners of the acquired businesses; • difficulties in incorporating the acquired business into our organization; • the potential loss of customers, distributors or suppliers; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with our advertisers; • difficulties in integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; • the potential for future impairments of goodwill if the acquired business does not perform as expected; • the inability to obtain necessary government approvals for the acquisition, if any; and • successfully operating the acquired business. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. We face significant competition for advertising spending from operators of new and traditional advertising networks. If we cannot successfully compete, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We face competition for general advertising spending from operators of many other forms of advertising networks, such as television, print media, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising. Our success depends on the continuing and increased interest of advertising clients and agencies in, luxury shopping mall LCD screens, outdoor billboard, and furniture display as components of their advertising strategies. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that the viewing public is not receptive to advertising platforms we offer or that these platforms do not provide sufficient value as effective advertising mediums. If we cannot successfully compete for advertising spending against traditional, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to operate our business, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For billboard advertising spending, we face competition from different players across different platforms and in different cities where we operate. For our billboard advertising platform, we compete against mostly local or regional outdoor billboard owners and operators, as the outdoor billboard market in China is largely fragmented. For our luxury shopping mall LCD advertising platform, we compete against other seasoned operators and new digital media platform. We compete for advertising spending on these platforms generally on the basis of network coverage, service quality and brand name. If we cannot compete successfully for advertising spending on these platforms, our market share and our results of operations would suffer. We have no competition for the furniture display business since we have a contractual agreement signed with Home Inns. If we are unable to attract advertisers for our networks, we will be unable to maintain or increase our advertising fees and the demand for time on our networks, which could negatively affect our ability to grow revenues. The amounts of fees we can charge advertisers for time slots on our luxury shopping mall LCD advertising network and traditional billboard network depend on the size and quality of these networks and the demand by advertisers for advertising time on these networks. Advertisers choose to advertise on these networks in part based on the size of the networks and the desirability of the locations where we have placed. If we fail to maintain or increase the number of locations, displays and billboards in our networks, diversify advertising channels in our networks, or solidify our brand name and reputation as a quality provider of advertising services, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase time on our networks or to pay the levels of advertising fees we require to remain profitable. Our failure to attract advertisers to purchase time slots on our networks will reduce demand for time slots we are able to sell, which could necessitate lowering the fees we charge for advertising time on our network and could negatively affect our ability to increase revenues in the future. We rely on a small number of suppliers for our LCD shopping mall network equipment. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain of the equipment used in our LCD shopping mall network. The majority of our LCD display equipment, along with the installation into shopping mall, in terms or dollars spent, was purchased from limited number of suppliers. If, as a result of a change our relationship with our suppliers, for any reason, we can no longer obtain LCD display equipment in the same quantities, or at all, or on favorable terms, we will need to find other suppliers for our LCD display equipment. Such alternative suppliers may not be able to provide equipment of the same or comparable quality as our existing suppliers, may not be as reliable or responsive to our purchase orders and requests, or may otherwise not provide the same level of service as our existing suppliers. As a result, if we are no longer able to source equipment from our current suppliers, our maintenance, enhancement and expansion of our business may be adversely affected. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with site owners, managers and sublessors that provide us access to desirable locations and network platforms, our growth potential and our business could be harmed. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely on our ability to provide a large network of our media products across media platforms at desirable locations. The effectiveness of our network also depends on the cooperation of site owners and managers to allow us to install the desired types of media at the desired spots on their properties. To address these needs, we must develop and maintain business relationships with site managers and owners and, for a portion of our network. Since the ownership of shopping malls is fragmented, maintaining these relationships requires considerable operational resources in terms of contract management and site development and maintenance personnel. If we fail to devote the necessary resources to maintaining these relationships or if we fail to perform our obligations under the existing leases, these lessors and sublessors may terminate their leases with us or not renew them upon expiration. In some cases, we have not maintained good relations and some of our leases have been terminated or may be terminated in the future. Failures to obtain site owners’ consents or objections from site owners to the installations of our media products could lead to termination of our contracts or installations, which would harm our results of operations. Applicable laws and regulations require that we obtain the consent of the owners of the properties on which we install our media products. While we generally take all reasonable efforts to execute display agreements with site owners or owner committees before installing our media products, , when we cannot locate all site owners or an owner committee has not been established, we execute display agreements with site managers. Where we do not have site-owners’ consents, these owners may seek to terminate our agreements or seek the removal of our installations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, senior management and other key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily on the continued services of our executive officers, senior management and other key employees, their industry expertise, their experience in business operations and sales and marketing, and their working relationships with our advertising clients as well as the site owners, property developers, property management companies, and relevant government authorities that affect the site contracts with us. We do not have a long history of working with some of these executive officers, senior management and key employees. If one or more of our senior executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, site contracts, and key professionals and staff members. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers, which agreement contains non-competition provisions. However, if a dispute arises between us and our executive officers, there is no assurance that any of these agreements could be enforced, or to what extent they could be enforced, in China, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. If we are unable to adapt to changing advertising trends of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues, which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and revenues. The competitive market for out-of-home advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends of advertisers and consumers. In response to these new advertising trends, we may need to quickly develop and adopt new formats, features and enhancements for our advertising network and/or cost-effectively expand into additional advertising media and platforms beyond, billboards, shopping mall LCDs and furniture display advertising. We may be required to incur, but may not have the financial resources necessary to fund, development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new advertising trends. If we fail to identify or respond adequately to these changing advertising trends, demand for our advertising network and services may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. Our growth could suffer if we fail to expand our media networks to include new media offerings, media platforms or enter into new markets. Currently, our network primarily consists of luxury mall LCD screen, outdoor billboard and street furniture. Our growth strategy includes broadening our service offerings and possibly entering into new advertising markets. It is difficult to predict whether consumers and advertising clients will accept our entry into new media markets or accept the new media products or platforms we may offer. It is also difficult to predict whether we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs of entering into these new markets or introducing these new products or new media platforms. We may also have limited or no prior experience working with these new products, platforms or markets. If we fail to expand our media network to include new media products, platforms or markets, our growth could suffer as a result. If site managers or owners shut down our displays for site maintenance or other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. Under certain site leasing contracts we entered into with site managers or owners, site managers or owners have the right to shut down our displays with prior written notice if they need to inspect or maintain the sites where we have installed advertising displays, or for other reasons such as facility reconstruction. However, under our contracts with our advertising clients, if these displays are shut down for an extended period of time, we are required to substitute these suspended displays with alternative displays. If we cannot reach an agreement with our clients on the alternative displays, we could be required to refund the advertising fees paid by these clients. If a substantial number of our displays are shut down by site managers within a short time period, we may not be able to locate alternative display locations and may incur substantial remedial costs. Our relationships with our advertising clients could also suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected. We rely on the proper operation and maintenance of our computer system. Any malfunction, capacity constraint or operation interruption for any extended period may have an adverse impact on our business. The satisfactory performance, stability, and security of our computer system and our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain advertisers. Our information system provides a database of information regarding advertising records and various other facets of the business to assist management and to help ensure effective communication among various departments and offices of our Company. Accordingly, any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, stability, security and availability of our computer system may cause significant harm to our reputation and to our advertisers’ interest in advertising their products. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within or outside our control, could reduce the attractiveness and availability of our product offerings. Our computer systems are also susceptible to damage from computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunication failures, computer hacking, and similar events. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our network systems or other assets. As a result, any capacity constraints or operation interruptions for any extended period may have a materially adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including corporate chops and seals fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including contracts such as the leases and sales contracts that our business relies on, are executed using the chops or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with Administration of Industry and Commerce, or AIC. 7 Table of Contents Although we usually utilize chops to enter into contracts, the registered legal representatives of each of our PRC operating subsidiaries have the apparent authority to enter into contracts on behalf of such entities without chops. Currently, the designated legal representative of our PRC subsidiaries is a senior level member of management. Accordingly, there is a risk that the registered legal representatives of each of our PRC operating subsidiaries could abuse their authority, for example, by binding the Company with contracts against the Company’s interest or intentions which could result in economic harm or damages as a result of any contractual obligations, or resulting disputes that might arise. If the party contracting with the Company did not act in good faith under such circumstances, then we could incur costs to nullify such contracts. We rely on the Company seals, financial chops and business licenses of our PRC entities for entering into contracts, conducting banking business, or taking official corporate action of any sort including registering any change to the composition of the board of directors or management with the relevant PRC authorities. In order to maintain the physical security of our chops, seals and business licenses and other controlling intangible assets, we generally store these items in secured locations accessible only by the authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments. Although we monitor such authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments, there is no assurance such procedures may be able to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. Accordingly, if any of our authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments obtain and misuse or misappropriate our corporate chops, seals, business licenses or other controlling intangible assets, we could incur economic damage and disruption to our operations that may necessitate corporate or legal action. Such corporate or legal action could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations. In particular, during any period were we lose effective control of the corporate activities as a result of such misuse or misappropriation, the business activities of the affected entity could be disrupted and we could lose the economic benefits of that aspect of our business which may negatively impact our business and reputation. We have no business liability, disruption or litigation insurance, and we could incur substantial costs if our business is disrupted due to natural disasters, litigation or other business interruptions. We have no property insurance against accidental occurrences or disruptive actions, and we could incur substantial costs if our business is disrupted due to accidental occurrences or disruptive actions. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption coverage for our operations in China. All industries are subject to legal claims. As a public company, we are particularly susceptible to securities and derivative lawsuits. These claims may be costly to defend and divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Our LCD screens, billboards and street furniture may be insured for third-party liability and commercial general property insurance, but insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer property insurance against accidental occurrences or disruptive actions. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to damages caused by accidental occurrences or disruptive actions, any material accidental occurrences or disruptive actions may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Risks Relating to Doing Business in the People’s Republic of China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. All of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations or the government’s control over capital investments and foreign currencies. As the PRC economy is increasingly linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent financial and economic crises. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The various economic and policy measures enacted by the PRC government to forestall economic downturns or shore up the PRC economy may not succeed and our business could be negatively affected as a result. If advertising registration certificates are not obtained for advertisements on our outdoor billboard or luxury shopping mall LCD networks, we may be subject to fines. On May 22, 2006, the SAIC amended the Provisions on the Registration Administration of Outdoor Advertisements, or the new outdoor advertisement provisions. Pursuant to the new outdoor advertisement provisions, advertisements placed on posters, digital displays, light boxes, neon lights via outdoor premises, space, facilities, are treated as outdoor advertisements and must be registered in accordance with the local SAIC by “advertising distributors” and advertising registration certificates must be obtained. After review and examination, if an application complies with the requirements, the local SAIC will issue an Outdoor Advertising Registration Certificate for such advertisement. The content, format, specifications, periods and locations of dissemination of the outdoor advertisement must be submitted for filing with the local SAIC. We require advertisers to apply for and obtain the registration certificates for their advertisements. If an advertiser displays an advertisement without the requisite registration, the relevant local SAICs may require us to disgorge advertising revenues and may impose fines up to RMB30,000 (approximately USD4,773) on us. Our luxury mall LCD screens, outdoor billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to municipal zoning requirements, governmental approvals and administrative controls. If we are required to tear down our luxury mall LCD screens, billboards, light boxes or neon signs as a result of these requirements, approvals or controls, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Our luxury mall LCD screens, billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to local regulations which may impose detailed requirements regarding municipal zoning requirements and governmental approvals. Each outdoor placement and installation may require a license with specific terms of use. If we, or our lessors or sublessors, violate the terms of the license for the relevant placement and installation for a LCD screen, billboard, light box or neon sign, we could be required to tear it down. We may also be required to tear it down as result of changes of municipal zoning requirements or actions taken by local authorities for city beautification, clean-up or other purposes. If we lose a significant number of luxury mall LCD screens, billboards, light boxes and/or neon signs as a result, our business operations would be materially and adversely impacted. Moreover, if we are unable to perform our advertising contracts as a result of these losses, we may incur remedial costs and our relationships with our advertising clients and financial results could be harmed as a result. If we were deemed a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we could be subject to tax on our global income and our non-PRC shareholders could be subject to certain PRC taxes. Under the New PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law effective January 1, 2008, or the EIT law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise” and will be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementing rules of the EIT law define “de facto management” as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. If we were to be considered a “resident enterprise” by the PRC tax authorities, our global income would be subject to tax under the EIT law at the rate of 25% and, to the extent we were to generate a substantial amount of income outside of the PRC in the future, we would be subject to additional taxes. In addition, if we were to be considered a “resident enterprise,” any dividends we were pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to withholding tax and our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to a 10% income tax on any gains they would realize from the transfer of their shares, if such income were sourced from within the PRC. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, no final interpretations on the implementation of the “resident enterprise” designation are available for companies such as ours. Moreover, any such designation, when made by PRC tax authorities, will be determined based on the facts and circumstances of individual cases. As a result, we cannot currently determine the likelihood of the Company being designated a “resident enterprise”. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after a violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the content and services we provide through our network. As an operator of an advertising medium, we are obligated under PRC law to monitor the advertising content displayed on our network for compliance with applicable law. Although the advertisements displayed on our network may have been previously displayed over public media, we may be required to separately and independently vet these advertisements for content compliance before displaying them on our networks. In addition, for advertising content related to certain types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertiser’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filings with the local authorities Any failure to strictly abide by applicable requirements regarding content, pre-approval, or proper filings could result in fines up to RMB30,000 (approximately USD4,773), confiscation of advertising earnings, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. Moreover, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our network. If consumers find the content displayed on our network to be offensive, site managers and owners may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims against them or may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached and unauthorized images or text are displayed on our network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images or text to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure, and harm our reputation. If our viewers do not believe our content is reliable and accurate, our business model may become less appealing to them and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our network. Government censure, investigation or any other government action, or any civil suits against us could divert management time and resources and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Governmental control of currency conversion may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantial limitations may be imposed on the removal of funds from the PRC to the Company, or the infusion of funds by us to our subsidiaries located in the PRC. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our parent, the Company. As dividends from Chinese operations will be the primary source of revenue production for us, failure to be able to receive such dividends could materially and adversely impact the value of your Company shares and could make it impossible for us to meet our cash flow requirements. 9 Table of Contents On August 29, 2008, SAFE, promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the convert a RMB may be used. When applying for the conversion of foreign exchange in “capital account”, such as foreign exchange received from capital contribution or loans, into RMB, the company is required, except for small amount conversions not exceeding US$50,000 for daily expenses, to submit to the bank the relevant documents supporting such conversion, such as the business contracts, related RMB payment notice, and documents evidencing the use of funds previously converted from foreign exchange in its capital account. Further, SAFE Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the company’s business scope approved and registered with the local SAIC authority, and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. As a result, SAFE Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to effectively convert any US dollar infusion of funds from our off-shore company into RMB to be used by our subsidiaries located in the PRC. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may prevent us from making loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, any loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance the activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our wholly-owned subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese RMB appreciated approximately 1.0%, 3.1%, 5.1% and 0.2% against the U.S. dollar in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government will adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of Chinese RMB against the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in Renminbi. Thus, a resumption of the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would, for instance, further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as we may rely on dividends and other distributions paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, any significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our preferred or ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Any fluctuation of the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign current translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Any health epidemics and other outbreaks, or war, acts of terrorism and other man -made or natural disasters could severely disrupt our business operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian influenza, H1N1 Flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian influenza and H1N1 Flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian influenza, H1N1 Flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could require the temporary closure of our offices or prevent our staff from traveling to our clients’ offices to sell our services or provide onsite services. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including snowstorms, earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur in the future, our ability to operate our business could be materially impaired. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder. The company’s conduct of its corporate affairs will be governed by its Memorandum and Articles of Association, and the Company is subject at all times to the Companies Law (2010 Revision) of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders and the fiduciary duties of the directors under Cayman Islands law are governed by the Companies Law (2010 Revision) and/or common law principles derived from cases in the Cayman Islands and in the courts of England (English case law is not binding but is considered persuasive in the courts of the Cayman Islands). The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary duties of directors under Cayman Islands law differ from those established under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. Additionally, the removal of a director from our board of directors, even for cause, may in certain circumstances require the approval of our shareholders. Also, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law compared to the United States and less developed or judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law compared to many U.S. states, including Delaware. Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not resident in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located 10 Table of Contents outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. As a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from certain SEC requirements that provide stockholders with protections and information that must be made available to stockholders of U.S. public companies. On June 30, 2010, we became a foreign private issuer, which reduces the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, resulting in fewer costs associated with financial and reporting compliance. For example, as a foreign private issuer we will be exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies, including: • the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material non-public information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions, or a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months. Because of the foregoing filing exemptions, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares for the foreseeable future, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our ordinary shares only if those shares appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deem relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, the terms of our credit facilities, if any, and any other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our ordinary shares, and there is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value. Voting control by executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the company may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring shareholder approval. The executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the Company beneficially own approximately 41.4% of our voting shares as of April 15, 2013. These shareholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of ordinary shares or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. The NYSE MKT may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. If the NYSE MKT delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. On July 15, 2011, the NYSE MKT notified us that we were not in compliance with (1) Section 1003(a)(i) of the NYSE MKT Company Guide because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $2,000,000 as of December 31, 2010 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in two of our three most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, (2) Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 as of December 31, 2010 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and (3) Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide because, in the opinion of the NYSE MKT, our losses and existing financial resources, brought into question whether we will be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. On October 6, 2011, the NYSE MKT notified us that our plan to regain compliance had been accepted and that our listing would continue to be subject to the Company demonstrating compliance with the financial impairment standard in Section 1003(a)(iv) by January 17, 2012, and the minimum stockholders’ equity requirements in Sections 1003(a)(i) and 1003(a)(ii) by January 15, 2013. Based on the information we provided to the NYSE MKT, the NYSE MKT in a letter dated March 7, 2012, notified us that we had made significant progress towards regaining compliance with Sections 1003(a)(iv), 1003(a)(i) and 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide and that we must demonstrate that we had regained compliance with the financial impairment standard included in Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide by May 21, 2012 and the stockholders’ equity standards included in Sections 1003(a)(i) and 1003(a)(ii) by January 15, 2013. On June 13, 2012, NYSE MKT notified us that we were also in violation of Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide and extended the date from May 21, 2012 until January 15, 2013 in which we needed to come in compliance with the stockholders’ equity standards included in Sections 1003(a)(i-iii) of the Company Guide and the financial impairment standard in Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide. On January 22, 2013, the NYSE MKT notified us that we had resolved the continued listing deficiencies with respect to Sections 1003(a)(i-iv) of the Company since it reported preliminary shareholders equity above $6,000,000 as of December 31, 2012 and that we had demonstrated that we had remedied our financial impairment. NYSE MKT’s determination of compliance was based on the presumption that our audited results included in this 20-F will be consistent with our preliminary financial results in the press release we issued on January 16, 2013. If NYSE MKT determines that our audited results are not consistent with our preliminary financial results, they may initiate delisting proceedings. Further, there is no assurance that we will continue to meet the listing requirements in the future. 11 Table of Contents There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes after the Business Combination, which could result in significantly greater U.S. federal income tax liability to us. Section 7874(b) of the Code generally provides that a corporation organized outside the United States which acquires, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired corporation, by reason of owning shares of the acquired corporation, own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) were to apply to the conversion, then we, as the surviving entity, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its worldwide taxable income following the Business Combination as if we were a domestic corporation. Although Section 7874(b) should not apply to treat us as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the Business Combination should be treated as part of the same transaction and, therefore, this 80% threshold was not reached, due to the absence of full guidance on how the rules of Section 7874(b) will apply to the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination, this result is not entirely free from doubt. As a result, stockholders and warrant holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors on this issue. We intend to take the position that we are a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The immediately following two risk factors assume that we will be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of ordinary shares or warrants of Tiger Media. We will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of its gross income (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the expected composition of the assets and income of the Company and our subsidiaries after the Business Combination, it is not anticipated that we will be treated as a PFIC following the Business Combination. The actual PFIC status of the Company for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until the conclusion of our taxable year, and accordingly there can be no assurance as to the status of the Company as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. holders of our securities are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. If you acquire (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10% or more of our shares, you may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. In addition, if a person that is or was a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a CFC during the 5-year period ending on the date on which such person sells or exchanges shares of stock of such corporation recognizes gain in such a sale, such gain is treated as a dividend to the extent of earnings and profits of the corporation attributable to such stock that were accumulated while such person held the stock while the corporation was a CFC. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the corporation. A “10% U.S. Shareholder” is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a CFC, and therefore whether the more-than-50% and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities or shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. U.S. holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules. Risks Relating to Our Stockholders and Warrant holders We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to the warrant holders, preventing such holders from realizing the potential economic value of their warrants. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act, we may redeem all of the currently outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sale price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Calling all of such warrants for redemption could force the warrant holders to: • exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price for such warrants at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so; • sell the warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants; or • accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants, which may significantly reduce their economic value and create liability for us. The Company has extended the expiration dates of certain existing warrants to December 2013 and reduced the exercise price of these warrants to $2.50 per share. Holders of our warrants will be able to receive shares upon the exercise of the warrants as long as: • our current registration statement on Form F-3 or a similar registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the ordinary shares underlying the warrants remains effective; and • such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. A registration statement on Form F-3 covering the shares underlying the warrants was declared effective as of September 27, 2011. The value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if the registration statement on Form F-3 covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants does not remain effective or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. We have agreed to qualify for sale the common stock underlying our warrants in each state in which the units issued in the Ideation initial public offering were initially offered. 12 Table of Contents 