D. Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business and Operations There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our ongoing financing needs as well as to obtain third party financing. As indicated in the report on our financial statements issued by our auditors, Marcum Bernstein & Pinchuk LLP, there is “substantial doubt” about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2011 our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $31.0 million and our net shareholders’ equity was a deficit of $13.5 million. Our cash and cash equivalent as of December 31, 2011 was $4.6 million. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debts and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may (i) seek additional financing, (ii) dispose of certain assets or (iii) seek to refinance some or all of our debts. We are also taking a number of other actions to address the issue, including amendment of earn-out agreements which satisfies such payment obligations with shares instead of cash, seeking funding from existing shareholders and adopting other cost-saving strategies. We cannot assure you that any of the alternatives above can be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. The inclusion of the substantial doubt language in the audit report about our ability to continue as a going concern could affect our ability to obtain financing from third parties or could result in increased costs of such financing. 6 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient liquidity to pay earn-out payments when they come due, which could materially and adversely affect our operations. We are obligated to pay earn-out payments in connection with our acquisitions of a number of advertising businesses. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of our earn-outs payable within one year was $23.2 million, of which $16.8 million is payable in cash. Based on the current cash position and forecast for the remainder of the payment period, we believe that we would not have sufficient capital to pay the required cash earn-out payments over the next twelve months. In April 2012, our board of directors approved and authorized a capped pool of 7 million ordinary shares to be issued to certain ex-owners of the subsidiaries (“Integration Program”) for the purpose of converting and eliminating the outstanding earn-out liabilities. On May 2, 2012, the Company divested Zhejiang Continental Advertising Co. Ltd. (“Zhejiang Continental”) back to its previous owners and eliminated the related earn-out liability of $8.2 million in exchange for the issuance of 1 million ordinary shares of the Company. Through the divestiture of Zhejiang Continental, the Company has materially reduced its outstanding cash earn-out liabilities to $8.6 million. The Company is renegotiating payment terms with the remaining acquired subsidiaries and the goal is to eliminate all cash earn-out liabilities through the Integration Program. If the imbalance between earn-outs payable and our current cash position cannot be remedied through renegotiation of the terms of such earn-outs with the acquired companies or if we are unable to raise the required proceeds on reasonable terms, our operations are likely to be adversely and materially impacted. If the earn-out obligations of the remaining acquired subsidiaries are not extinguished pursuant to our Integration Program, our ability to raise additional capital may be jeopardized. Furthermore, our business strategy to pursue organic growth and the viability of new concessions and other projects is dependent upon our ability to raise new funding. We have a history of significant operating losses and our future revenue and operating profitability are uncertain. We recorded a net loss of $13.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and we ended the year with an accumulated deficit of $13.5 million. In addition, we recorded a net loss of approximately $46.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Loss from operations reduced from $44.8 million in 2010 to $13.2 million in 2011. The greater net loss in 2010 was due to impairment charges which were non-cash. We may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future, and such losses may be substantial. We will need to increase revenue in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of operating losses, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve operating profitability on an annual basis. Our failure to achieve profitability could adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional capital. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we have had to restate our historical financial statements. In August 2010, we announced that we would restate the financial statements of SearchMedia International as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008, to, among other things, correct an overstatement of revenue of $47.0 million in 2008. We restated our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the SEC on November 1, 2010. 7 Table of Contents After the Business Combination and in connection with our preparation of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed November 1, 2010, we identified accounting irregularities and potential financial and operational improprieties, relating to transactions and financial reporting matters that occurred under the management of SearchMedia International before the Business Combination, which were not previously identified as a result of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses relate to, among other things: (i) recording of various erroneous transactions by certain employees; (ii) recording of certain assets and other accounting irregularities related to acquisitions; (iii) diligence and approval of questionable transactions; and (iv) confirmation of payments related to acquisitions. We have implemented and we plan to further implement steps to address these material weaknesses and improve our internal control over financial reporting. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address these control weaknesses, and to date these control weaknesses have not been remediated in full. If we fail to implement and maintain the adequate internal control procedures in a timely manner, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, we cannot be certain we will effectively remediate our control weaknesses or that restatements will not occur in the future. The preparation and filing of restatements could create a significant strain on our internal resources and cause delays in our filing of annual financial results, increase our financial accounting and related costs, and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. We were subject to a government inquiry in the United States. We and certain of our current and former directors and executive officers were defendants in a federal securities class action in the United States. The amended complaint alleged that the defendants violated Sections 10(b), 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 10b-5 and 14a-9 thereunder by making false and misleading statements regarding our acquisition of SearchMedia International and by overstating SearchMedia International’s financial results during the period April 1, 2009 through August 20, 2010 (“Proposed Class Period”). The claims asserted against us and our current and former directors and executive officers were dismissed with prejudice in April 2012 after we reached a court-approved, class-wide settlement with the plaintiffs. The order dismissing those claims is subject to certain appeal rights. The claims asserted against the remaining defendants, who were not part of the settlement, were dismissed by the court without prejudice and could be refiled by the plaintiffs. In addition, we have been notified that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional Office, is conducting a formal investigation regarding the issues that are the subject of our restatement of financial results announced on August 20, 2010. We are cooperating fully with the SEC during this investigation process. We cannot predict the cost or potential liabilities associated with responding to the SEC investigation or any related investigations or litigation that may arise from the matters under inquiry. We have notified our insurance carriers of the SEC investigation. One carrier, which issued a directors’ and officers’ liability policy that applies to part of the Proposed Class Period, has informed the Company that it formed the view that its policy does not provide coverage for the SEC investigation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our insurance carriers will cover all or part of the defense costs, or any liabilities that may arise from the SEC investigation or any related litigation that may arise from the matters under inquiry. Litigation and regulatory actions or proceedings can be time consuming and expensive, and could divert management time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our 8 Table of Contents revenues and results of operations. We also may be subject to claims for indemnification related to these matters, and we cannot predict the impact that indemnification claims may have on our business or financial results. Finally, we cannot provide any assurance that the final outcome of the SEC investigation or any related litigation that may arise will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Deterioration of economic conditions and a resulting decrease in demand for advertising services would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. Demand for our advertising services, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients on our network, is affected significantly by prevailing economic conditions. The current economic downturns in global markets have impacted, and are expected to further impact, materially and adversely, the advertising spending of our existing and potential multinational clients and, as the crisis spreads to China, the advertising spending of our existing and potential domestic clients. With a severe decline in economic conditions, clients who would normally spend on a broad range of traditional and new media may curtail their overall spending or concentrate their advertising spending on one medium. As we derive most of our revenues from our billboard and in-elevator advertising networks, a decrease in demand for advertising media in general and for our advertising media or advertising networks in particular would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. In addition, our clients who are adversely affected by the worsened economic conditions may delay paying the advertising fees to us, which would adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. A business strategy of making acquisitions subjects us to all of the risks inherent in identifying, acquiring and operating newly acquired businesses. Our growth strategy includes acquiring new businesses to complement and expand our existing operations. In the future, we may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that we believe could complement or expand our current business or offer growth opportunities. We may experience difficulties in identifying potential acquisition candidates that complement our current business at appropriate prices, or at all. Many of our competitors may also compete with us for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price of acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our acquisition strategy will be successful and we may expend significant management time and resources in analyzing and negotiating acquisitions or investments that are not consummated. Furthermore, the ongoing process of integrating acquired businesses is distracting, time consuming, expensive, and requires continuous optimization and allocation of resources. To that end, we have implemented a subsidiary integration program. The subsidiary integration program may not be successful and we may be unable to fully integrate the subsidiaries. If we are unsuccessful in integrating the subsidiaries, it could affect our financial controls and the timely reporting requirements over our subsidiaries. Additionally, if we use stock as consideration, this would have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. If we use cash, this would reduce our liquidity and impact our financial flexibility. We may seek debt financing for particular acquisitions, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We face all the risks associated with a business acquisition strategy, including, but not limited to: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses, including the diversion of management attention and the redeployment of resources; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • failure to identify in due diligence key issues specific to the businesses we seek to acquire or the industries or other environments in which they operate, or, failure to protect against contingent liabilities arising from those issues; 9 Table of Contents • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • difficulties in integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations which will likely be geographically separated and may involve diverse business operations and corporate cultures; • difficulties in integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • potential loss of key employees, clients or distribution partners of the acquired businesses; • difficulties in incorporating the acquired business into our organization; • the potential loss of customers, distributors or suppliers; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with our advertisers; • difficulties in integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; • the potential for future impairments of goodwill if the acquired business does not perform as expected; • the inability to obtain necessary government approvals for the acquisition, if any; and • successfully operating the acquired business. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. Future charges due to possible impairments of acquired assets may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may be subject to future impairment that would result in financial statement write-offs. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 33.6% of our total assets at December 31, 2011. If there is a material change in our business operations or prospects, the value of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future could decrease significantly. On an ongoing basis and at least annually, we will evaluate, partially based on discounted expected future cash flows, whether the carrying value of such intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We face significant competition for advertising spending from operators of new and traditional advertising networks. If we cannot successfully compete, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We face competition for general advertising spending from operators of many other forms of advertising networks, such as television, print media, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising. Our success depends on the continuing and increased interest of advertising clients and agencies in in-elevator, outdoor billboard, and transit advertising as components of their advertising strategies. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that the viewing public is not receptive to advertising platforms we offer or that these platforms do not provide sufficient value as effective advertising mediums. If we cannot successfully compete for advertising spending against traditional, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to operate our business, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents For in-elevator and billboard advertising spending, we face competition from different players across different platforms and in different cities where we operate. For our in-elevator advertising platform, we compete primarily against large regional operators and other nationwide operators some of which have substantially more financial resources than we have. For our billboard advertising platform, we compete against mostly local or regional outdoor billboard owners and operators, as the outdoor billboard market in China is largely fragmented. For our transit advertising platform, we compete against other seasoned operators. We compete for advertising spending on these platforms generally on the basis of network coverage, service quality and brand name. If we cannot compete successfully for advertising spending on these platforms, our market share and our results of operations would suffer. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with site owners, managers and sublessors that provide us access to desirable locations and network platforms, our growth potential and our business could be harmed. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely on our ability to provide a large network of our media products across media platforms at desirable locations. The effectiveness of our network also depends on the cooperation of site owners and managers to allow us to install the desired types of frames at the desired spots on their properties and, for in-elevator advertising, to keep the elevators in operation and accessible to the viewing public. To address these needs, we must develop and maintain business relationships with site managers and owners and, for a portion of our network, sublessors that consist primarily of advertising companies. Since the ownership of residential and office buildings are fragmented, maintaining these relationships requires considerable operational resources in terms of contract management and site development and maintenance personnel. If we fail to devote the necessary resources to maintaining these relationships or if we fail to perform our obligations under the existing leases, these lessors and sublessors may terminate their leases with us or not renew them upon expiration. In some cases, we have not maintained good relations and some of our leases have been terminated or may be terminated in the future. As there is a limited supply of billboards at desirable locations and a limited number of subway stations, the termination of a significant number of the leases for billboards and light boxes at subway stations could harm our multi-platform growth and operation strategies and our business and prospects could suffer as a result. Failures to obtain site owners’ consents or objections from site owners to the installations of our media products could lead to termination of our contracts or installations, which would harm our results of operations. Article 7 of the Interpretation of the Supreme People's Court on Several Issues Concerning the Specific Application of Law in the Trial of Disputes over Partitioned Ownership of Building Areas” provides: “Any commercial use of public areas or facilities of residential properties shall belong to the scope of other material matters stipulated in Article 76 -1-7 of Property Law.” Article 76-1-7 of Property Law provides: “other material matters concerning owners’ co-ownership and co-management rights shall be conducted only with the prior consent of owners whose proprietary property area is over 50% of whole property area of the residential quarter and percentage is over 50%.” In accordance with these requirements, we take all reasonable efforts to execute display agreements with site owners or owner committees before installing our media products. However, when we cannot locate all site owners or an owner committee has not been established, we execute display agreements with site managers. We have obtained proper consents from site owners or owner committees for approximately 83% of our operations in terms of cost of sales and site manager consents for the remaining approximately 17% of our operations. Furthermore, in the past three years, we have not had an agreement terminated or lost a site due to an objection for lack of consent, nor have we received any written objection from or been sued by any site owner or owner committee due to lack of consent. 11 Table of Contents The shareholders of Jingli Shanghai may have potential conflicts of interest with us. Before December 23, 2011, the Company was subject to risk relating to its variable interest entity structure, which structure was terminated on such date. One of the risks related to potential conflicts of interest the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai may have with us. The shareholders of Jingli Shanghai are also the founders and shareholders of the Company. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as shareholders of both Jingli Shanghai and the Company may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of the Company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause Jingli Shanghai to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control Jingli Shanghai and receive economic benefits from it. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain and could be disruptive to our business. We have terminated these contractual arrangements effective December 23, 2011 and our risk under this risk factor has been eliminated starting from December 23, 2011. If we are unable to obtain or retain desirable placement locations for our advertising poster frames and outdoor billboards on commercially advantageous terms, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our cost of revenues consists primarily of operating lease cost of advertising space for displaying advertisements, depreciation of advertisement display equipment, amortization of intangible assets relating to lease agreements and direct staff and material costs associated with production and installation of advertisement content. Our operating lease cost represents a significant portion of our cost of revenues. In 2010 and 2011, our operating lease cost accounted for 91.4% and 95.7%, respectively, of our cost of revenues and 64.3% and 78.9% respectively, of our total revenues. In the future, we may need to pay higher amounts in order to renew existing leases, obtain new and desirable locations, or secure exclusivity and other favorable terms. If we are unable to secure commercially advantageous terms or pass increased location costs onto our advertising clients through rate increases, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, senior management and other key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily on the continued services of our executive officers, senior management and other key employees, their industry expertise, their experience in business operations and sales and marketing, and their working relationships with our advertising clients as well as the site owners, property developers, property management companies, homeowner associations and relevant government authorities that affect the site contracts with us. We do not have a long history of working with some of these executive officers, senior management and key employees. If one or more of our senior executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, site contracts, key professionals and staff members. 12 Table of Contents We have entered into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers, which agreement contains non-competition provisions. However, if a dispute arises between us and our executive officers, there is no assurance that any of these agreements could be enforced, or to what extent they could be enforced, in China, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. Furthermore, some of the former equity owners of the acquired entities, which we refer to as the "ex-owners", and other employees are important to the collection of long outstanding account receivables. We will continue to require the full and timely cooperation from these individuals in our collection efforts. Any disagreements or disputes with such individuals may cause delays in the collection period or even impact our ability to collect such funds. Additionally, there are other receivables that we are continuing to attempt to collect that are related to ex-owners and employees. These other receivables include withdrawals and related party transactions that were prevalent at the subsidiary level. Although we are working to collect these funds, these receivables may affect the cash flow of the Company. If we are unable to adapt to changing advertising trends of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues, which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and revenues. The competitive market for out-of-home advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends of advertisers and consumers. In response to these new advertising trends, we may need to quickly develop and adopt new formats, features and enhancements for our advertising network and/or cost-effectively expand into additional advertising media and platforms beyond in-elevator, billboards, and transit platform advertising. We may be required to incur, but may not have the financial resources necessary to fund, development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new advertising trends. If we fail to identify or respond adequately to these changing advertising trends, demand for our advertising network and services may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. Our growth could suffer if we fail to expand our media networks to include new media offerings, media platforms or enter into new markets. Currently, our network primarily consists of in-elevator, outdoor billboard and transit advertising. Our growth strategy includes broadening our service offerings and possibly entering into new advertising markets. It is difficult to predict whether consumers and advertising clients will accept our entry into new media markets or accept the new media products or platforms we may offer. It is also difficult to predict whether we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs of entering into these new markets or introducing these new products or new media platforms. We may also have limited or no prior experience working with these new products, platforms or markets. If we fail to expand our media network to include new media products, platforms or markets, our growth could suffer as a result. 13 Table of Contents If site managers or owners shut down our displays for site maintenance or other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. Under certain site leasing contracts we entered into with site managers or owners, site managers or owners have the right to shut down our displays with prior written notice if they need to inspect or maintain the sites where we have installed advertising displays, or for other reasons such as facility reconstruction. However, under our contracts with our advertising clients, if these displays are shut down for an extended period of time, we are required to substitute these suspended displays with alternative displays. If we cannot reach an agreement with our clients on the alternative displays, we could be required to refund the advertising fees paid by these clients. If a substantial number of our displays are shut down by site managers within a short time period, we may not be able to locate alternative display locations and may incur substantial remedial costs. Our relationships with our advertising clients could also suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. The validity, enforceability, and scope of protection available under intellectual property laws with respect to trademark and trade secrets in China are uncertain and still evolving. Implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. One example of a protective measure regarding intellectual property, pre-litigation injunction relief, is still evolving in China and this protective measure needs more detailed guidance on implementation. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Any such litigation or an adverse determination in any such litigation, could result in significant costs to the Company and a diversion of resources and management attention. We rely on the proper operation and maintenance of our computer system. Any malfunction, capacity constraint or operation interruption for any extended period may have an adverse impact on our business. 14 Table of Contents The satisfactory performance, stability, and security of our computer system and our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain advertisers. Our information system provides a database of information regarding advertising records and various other facets of the business to assist management and to help ensure effective communication among various departments and offices of our Company. Accordingly, any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, stability, security and availability of our computer system may cause significant harm to our reputation and to our advertisers’ interest in advertising their products. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within or outside our control, could reduce the attractiveness and availability of our product offerings. Our computer systems are also susceptible to damage from computer viruses, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunication failures, computer hacking, and similar events. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our network systems or other assets. As a result, any capacity constraints or operation interruptions for any extended period may have a materially adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. If the custodians or authorized users of our controlling non-tangible assets, including corporate chops and seals fail to fulfill their responsibilities, or misappropriate or misuse these assets, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under PRC law, legal documents for corporate transactions, including contracts such as the leases and sales contracts that our business relies on, are executed using the chops or seal of the signing entity or with the signature of a legal representative whose designation is registered and filed with Administration of Industry and Commerce, or AIC. Although we usually utilize chops to enter into contracts, the registered legal representatives of each of our PRC operating subsidiaries have the apparent authority to enter into contracts on behalf of such entities without chops. All designated legal representatives of our PRC subsidiaries are members of our senior management team who owe us fiduciary duties. Accordingly, there is a risk that the registered legal representatives of each of our PRC operating subsidiaries could abuse their authority, for example, by binding the Company with contracts against the Company’s interest or intentions which could result in economic harm or damages as a result of any contractual obligations, or resulting disputes, that might arise. If the party contracting with the Company did not act in good faith under such circumstances, then we could incur costs to nullify such contracts. We rely on the Company seals, financial chops and business licenses of our PRC entities for entering into contracts, conducting banking business, or taking official corporate action of any sort including registering any change to the composition of the board of directors or management with the relevant PRC authorities. In order to maintain the physical security of our chops, seals and business licenses and other controlling intangible assets, we generally store these items in secured locations accessible only by the authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments. Although we monitor such authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments, there is no assurance such procedures may be able to prevent all instances of abuse or negligence. Accordingly, if any of our authorized personnel in the local legal and finance departments obtain and misuse or misappropriate our corporate chops, seals, business licenses or other controlling intangible assets, we could incur economic damage and disruption to our operations that may necessitate corporate or legal action. Such corporate or legal action could involve significant time and resources to resolve while distracting management from our operations. In particular, during any period were we lose effective control of the corporate activities as a result of such misuse or misappropriation, the business activities of the affected entity could be disrupted and we could lose the economic benefits of that aspect of our business which may negatively impact our business and reputation. 15 Table of Contents We have no business liability, disruption or litigation insurance, and we could incur substantial costs if our business is disrupted due to natural disasters, litigation or other business interruptions. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption coverage for our operations in China. All industries are subject to legal claims. As a public company, we are particularly susceptible to securities and derivative lawsuits. These claims may be costly to defend and divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing advertising clients, attract new advertising clients and satisfy our clients’ demands; • the frequency of our clients’ advertisements on our network; • remaining competitive with the pricing strategies of our competitors; • effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate alliances or acquired businesses into our business; • changes in government regulations in relation to the advertising industry; • lower advertising spending immediately following a major holiday season in China; and • economic and geopolitical conditions in China and elsewhere. Many of the factors discussed above are beyond our control, making our results difficult to predict from period to period. Although we did not experience significant seasonality in our business, except for generally lower sales in periods immediately following major holiday seasons historically, you should not rely on our operating results for prior periods as an indication of our future results. If our revenues for a particular period are lower than expected, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that period by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that period relative to our operating results from other periods. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Doing Business in the People’s Republic of China If the PRC government determines that the contractual arrangements that established the structure for operating our China business do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Before December 23, 2011, the Company was subject to risk relating to its variable interest entity structure. One of the risks related to potential consequences if the PRC government determined that the contractual arrangements that established the Company's operational control of its China operations did not comply with the applicable PRC laws and regulations. Applicable PRC laws and regulations currently require any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry in China to have at least three years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. We are a Cayman Islands corporation and a foreign legal person under Chinese laws. Before we acquired 100% of the equity interests of Ad-Icon in 2008, we had not directly operated an advertising business outside of China and thus could not qualify for the requirement of minimum three years experience outside China under PRC regulations. Accordingly, our subsidiary, Jieli Consulting, is currently ineligible to apply for the required business license for providing advertising services in China. Therefore, we entered into contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entity in China, Jingli Shanghai. Jingli Shanghai was owned by two PRC citizens, Ms. Qinying Liu and Ms. Le Yang, and held the requisite business license to provide advertising services in China. Jingli Shanghai and its subsidiaries directly operate a portion of our advertising network, enter into display placement agreements and sell advertising spaces to our clients with respect to certain of our operating subsidiaries. In 2010, Ad-Icon Shanghai, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ad-Icon, acquired some of Jingli Shanghai’s subsidiaries and operates the advertising business through such subsidiaries. Before the remaining subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai are acquired by Ad-Icon Shanghai and termination to the variable interest entities structure on December 23, 2011, we were expected to continue to be dependent on Jingli Shanghai and its subsidiaries to operate a portion of our advertising business. We did not have any equity interest in Jingli Shanghai but received the economic benefits and assume the economic risks of it through various contractual arrangements and certain corporate governance and shareholder rights arrangements. In addition, we entered into agreements with Jingli Shanghai and each of the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai which allow us to exert control over Jingli Shanghai. If we, Jieli Consulting, Jieli Network, Jingli Shanghai or any of our future PRC subsidiaries are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of Jingli Shanghai or our PRC subsidiary and other affiliated entities, if any; • discontinuing or restricting the operations of any transactions among our PRC subsidiary, Jingli Shanghai and its shareholders; • imposing fines, confiscating the income of Jingli Shanghai or our income, or imposing other requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of the Business Combination to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties may result in a material and adverse effect on the Company’s ability to conduct the Company’s business. 17 Table of Contents We have terminated these contractual arrangements effective December 23, 2011 and our risk of the imposition of any of these penalties has been eliminated starting from December 23, 2011. We rely on contractual arrangements with Jingli Shanghai and its shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as would be the case through ownership of a controlling equity interest in such operating entities. Before December 23, 2011, the Company was subject to risk relating to its variable interest entity structure, which structure was terminated on such date. One of the risks related to the Company's reliance on contractual arrangements with Jingli Shanghai and its shareholders for operational control of its China operations. In April 2008, we acquired 100% of the equity interest in Ad-Icon, a Hong Kong company, which operates an outdoor billboard advertising business. In December 2009, Ad-Icon established Ad-Icon Shanghai in China. In 2010, Ad-Icon Shanghai acquired most of the subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai, but as of the date of filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F, Ad-Icon Shanghai has not acquired all remaining subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with Jingli Shanghai and its shareholders to operate a portion of our business in China before we complete the acquisition of all subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Information on the Company —Organizational Structure — Contractual Arrangements with Jingli Shanghai and its Shareholders” in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. These contractual arrangements include an equity pledge agreement, under which the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai pledged their equity interests in Jingli Shanghai to Jieli Consulting. Such pledge was duly created by recording the pledge on Jingli Shanghai’s register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Collateral Law. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, effective as of October 1, 2007, the pledge needs to be registered with the relevant local branch of the Shanghai Administration of Industry and Commerce. Jingli Shanghai successfully registered the pledge with the Shanghai Administration of Industry and Commerce Chongming Sub-bureau on February 2, 2009. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as ownership of a controlling equity interest would be in providing us with control over Jingli Shanghai. Under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Jingli Shanghai or any of its shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in Jingli Shanghai to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith towards us, we may have to take legal action to compel them to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, we may not be able to renew these contracts with Jingli Shanghai and/or its shareholders. In addition, if Jingli Shanghai or all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Jingli Shanghai undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to generate revenue. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our affiliated entity, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and negatively affected. 18 Table of Contents We have terminated these contractual arrangements effective December 23, 2011 and our risk under this risk factor has been eliminated starting from December 23, 2011. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations or the government’s control over capital investments and foreign currencies. As the PRC economy is increasingly linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent financial and economic crises. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The various economic and policy measures enacted by the PRC government to forestall economic downturns or shore up the PRC economy may not succeed and our business could be negatively affected as a result. If advertising registration certificates are not obtained for advertisements on our outdoor billboard or rapid transit networks, we may be subject to fines. On May 22, 2006, the SAIC amended the Provisions on the Registration Administration of Outdoor Advertisements, or the new outdoor advertisement provisions. Pursuant to the new outdoor advertisement provisions, advertisements placed on posters, digital displays, light boxes, neon lights via outdoor premises, space, facilities, as well as those placed in rapid transit stations are treated as outdoor advertisements and must be registered in accordance with the local SAIC by “advertising distributors” and advertising registration certificates must be obtained. After review and examination, if an application complies with the requirements, the local SAIC will issue an Outdoor Advertising Registration Certificate for such advertisement. The content, format, specifications, periods and locations of dissemination of the outdoor advertisement must be submitted for filing with the local SAIC. 19 Table of Contents We require advertisers to apply for and obtain the registration certificates for their advertisements. If an advertiser displays an advertisement without the requisite registration, the relevant local SAICs may require us to disgorge advertising revenues and may impose fines up to RMB30,000 (approximately USD 4,800) on us. Our outdoor billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to municipal zoning requirements, governmental approvals and administrative controls. If we are required to tear down our billboards, light boxes or neon signs as a result of these requirements, approvals or controls, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to local regulations which may impose detailed requirements regarding municipal zoning requirements and governmental approvals. Each outdoor placement and installation may require a license with specific terms of use. If we, or our lessors or sublessors, violate the terms of the license for the relevant placement and installation for a billboard, light box or neon sign, we could be required to tear it down. We may also be required to tear it down as result of changes of municipal zoning requirements or actions taken by local authorities for city beautification, clean-up or other purposes. If we lose a significant number of billboards, light boxes and/or neon signs as a result, our business operations would be materially and adversely impacted. Moreover, if we are unable to perform our advertising contracts as a result of these losses, we may incur remedial costs and our relationships with our advertising clients and financial results could be harmed as a result. If we were deemed a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we could be subject to tax on our global income and our non-PRC shareholders could be subject to certain PRC taxes. Under the New PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law effective January 1, 2008, or the EIT law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise” and will be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementing rules of the EIT law define “de facto management” as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. If we were to be considered a “resident enterprise” by the PRC tax authorities, our global income would be subject to tax under the EIT law at the rate of 25% and, to the extent we were to generate a substantial amount of income outside of the PRC in the future, we would be subject to additional taxes. In addition, if we were to be considered a “resident enterprise,” the dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to withholding tax and our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to a 10% income tax on any gains they would realize from the transfer of their shares, if such income were sourced from within the PRC. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, no final interpretations on the implementation of the “resident enterprise” designation are available for companies such as ours. Moreover, any such designation, when made by PRC tax authorities, will be determined based on the facts and circumstances of individual cases. As a result, we cannot currently determine the likelihood of the Company being designated a “resident enterprise”. 20 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after a violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the content and services we provide through our network. As an operator of an advertising medium, we are obligated under PRC law to monitor the advertising content displayed on our network for compliance with applicable law. Although the advertisements displayed on our network may have been previously displayed over public media, we may be required to separately and independently vet these advertisements for content compliance before displaying them on our networks. In addition, for advertising content related to certain types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertiser’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filings with the local authorities. Previously, we did not strictly abide by these requirements. Any failure to strictly abide by applicable requirements regarding content, pre-approval, or proper filings could result in fines up to RMB30,000 (approximately USD4,800), confiscation of advertising earnings, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. We have remedied this noncompliance and have, among other things, employed qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations. In the past three years, we have not received notification from the PRC government for our failure to strictly abide by the requirements regarding content and confirmation that the advertisers obtained the requisite government pre-approval for the content of the advertisement and filings with the local authorities. Also, we have not received any indication that we may be potentially penalized for any previous instances of noncompliance. However, there can be no assurances that we will not be penalized for our past noncompliance or that each advertisement provided by an advertising client is in compliance with relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or that the supporting documentation and government approvals provided by our advertising clients are accurate and complete. 21 Table of Contents Moreover, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our network. If consumers find the content displayed on our network to be offensive, site managers and owners may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims against them or may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached and unauthorized images or text are displayed on our network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images or text to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure, and harm our reputation. If our viewers do not believe our content is reliable and accurate, our business model may become less appealing to them and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our network. Government censure, investigation or any other government action, or any civil suits against us could divert management time and resources and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Governmental control of currency conversion may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantial limitations may be imposed on the removal of funds from the PRC to the Company, or the infusion of funds by us to our subsidiaries located in the PRC. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our parent, the Company. As dividends from Chinese operations will be the primary source of revenue production for us, failure to be able to receive such dividends could materially and adversely impact the value of your Company shares and could make it impossible for us to meet our cash flow requirements. On August 29, 2008, SAFE, promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the convert a RMB may be used. When applying for the conversion of foreign exchange in "capital account", such as foreign exchange received from capital contribution or loans, into RMB, the company is required, except for small amount conversions not exceeding US$50,000 for daily expenses, to submit to the bank the relevant documents supporting such conversion, such as the business contracts, related RMB payment notice, and documents evidencing the use of funds 22 Table of Contents previously converted from foreign exchange in its capital account. Further, SAFE Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the company's business scope approved and registered with the local SAIC authority, and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. As a result, SAFE Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to effectively convert our US dollar infusion of funds from our off-shore company into RMB to be used by our subsidiaries located in the PRC. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may prevent us from making loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, any loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example, loans by us to our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance the activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our wholly-owned subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese RMB appreciated approximately 1.0%, 3.1% and 5.1% against the U.S. dollar in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government will adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of Chinese RMB against the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in Renminbi. Thus, a resumption of the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would, for instance, further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as we may rely on dividends and other distributions paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, any significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the 23 Table of Contents Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our preferred or ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Any fluctuation of the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign current translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Any health epidemics and other outbreaks, or war, acts of terrorism and other man -made or natural disasters could severely disrupt our business operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian influenza, H1N1 Flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian influenza and H1N1 Flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian influenza, H1N1 Flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could require the temporary closure of our offices or prevent our staff from traveling to our clients’ offices to sell our services or provide on site services. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including snowstorms, earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur in the future, our ability to operate our business could be materially impaired. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder. The company’s conduct of its corporate affairs will be governed by its Memorandum and Articles of Association, and the Company is subject at all times to the Companies Law (2010 Revision) of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders and the fiduciary duties of the directors under Cayman Islands law are governed by the Companies Law (2010 Revision) and/or common law principles derived from cases in the Cayman Islands and in the courts of England (English case law is not binding but is considered persuasive in the courts of the Cayman Islands). The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary duties of directors under Cayman Islands law differ from those established under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. Additionally, the removal of a director from our board of directors, even for cause, may in certain circumstances require the approval of our shareholders. Also, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law compared to the United States and less developed or judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law compared to many U.S. states, including Delaware. As a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from certain SEC requirements that provide stockholders with protections and information that must be made available to stockholders of U.S. public companies. On June 30, 2010, we became a foreign private issuer, which reduces the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, resulting in fewer costs associated with financial and reporting compliance. For example, as a foreign private issuer we will be exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies, including: • the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; 24 Table of Contents • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material non-public information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions, or a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months. As a foreign private issuer, we filed an annual report on Form 20-F for fiscal year 2010 on June 30, 2011. We filed this annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2011 on or before May 15, 2012, as permitted under Rule 12b-25, and will file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2012, and reports on Form 6-K relating to certain material events promptly after we publicly announces these events. However, because of the foregoing filing exemptions, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares for the foreseeable future, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our ordinary shares only if those shares appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deem relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, the terms of our credit facilities, if any, and any other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our ordinary shares, and there is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value. Voting control by executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the company may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring shareholder approval. The executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the Company beneficially own approximately 48% of our voting shares as of May 8, 2012. These shareholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of ordinary shares or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. The NYSE MKT may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. If the NYSE MKT delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; 25 Table of Contents • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. On April 8, 2011, we received notice of noncompliance with Section 704 of the NYSE MKT Company Guide (the "Company Guide"), which required us to hold our stockholders annual meeting during 2010 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. The NYSE MKT notified us on May 5, 2011 that it accepted our plan dated April 6, 2011 and granted us an extension until October 4, 2011 to regain compliance with continued listing standards. We were subject to periodic review by the NYSE MKT Staff during its extension period. On September 13, 2011, we held our 2011 annual general meeting of shareholders, which also served as our 2010 annual general meeting of shareholders. The NYSE MKT notified us on September 20, 2011 that we have resolved the annual meeting deficiency referenced in the prior NYSE MKT letter. On July 15, 2011, the NYSE MKT notified us that we were not in compliance with (1) Section 1003(a)(i) of the Company Guide because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $2,000,000 as of December 31, 2010 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in two of our three most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, (2) Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 as of December 31, 2010 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and (3) Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide because, in the opinion of the NYSE MKT, our losses and existing financial resources, brought into question whether we will be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. On October 6, 2011, the NYSE MKT notified us that our plan to regain compliance had been accepted and that our listing would continue to be subject to the Company demonstrating compliance with the financial impairment standard in Section 1003(a)(iv) by January 17, 2012, and the minimum stockholders’ equity requirements in Sections 1003(a)(i) and 1003(a)(ii) by January 15, 2013. Based on the information we provided to the NYSE MKT, the NYSE MKT in a letter dated March 7, 2012, notified us that we had made significant progress towards regaining compliance with Sections 1003(a)(iv), 1003(a)(i) and 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide and that we must demonstrate that we had regained compliance with the financial impairment standard included in Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide by May 21, 2012 and the stockholders’ equity standards included in Sections 1003(a)(i) and 1003(a)(ii) by January 15, 2013. Our shareholders’ deficit as at December 31, 2011 was $13.5 million. Upon completion of the divesture of Zhejiang Continental and elimination of Haiya’s earn-out liabilities in May 2012, our earn-out payable was reduced by $11.2 million which also significantly reduced our shareholders’ deficit. The Company continues to renegotiate with ex-owners of subsidiaries to convert the remaining earn-out liabilities of $12.0 million into the Company’s common shares under the Integration Program. The Company expects the Integration Program will be substantially completed by the end of the second quarter of 2012. The Company also expects the Convertible Note holders to convert their Notes during 2012 and that will increase our shareholders’ equity by another $3.0 million. The Company expects to regain compliance with the NYSE MKT’s minimum stockholders’ equity requirement standard by January 15, 2013. We are also required to provide the NYSE MKT with updates in conjunction with the initiatives of our compliance plan as appropriate or upon request but no later than at each quarter completion with our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and that any additional shares we issue during the plan periods will require approval of the management committee of the NYSE Regulation. A significant number of shares are eligible for future sale by our stockholders and the sale of those shares could adversely affect the stock price. 26 Table of Contents A significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock became eligible for resale beginning October 30, 2010, as a result of the expiration of lock up provisions on resale. If our stockholders whose shares are eligible for resale sell or attempt to sell their stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes after the Business Combination, which could result in significantly greater U.S. federal income tax liability to us. Section 7874(b) of the Code generally provides that a corporation organized outside the United States which acquires, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired corporation, by reason of owning shares of the acquired corporation, own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) were to apply to the conversion, then we, as the surviving entity, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its worldwide taxable income following the Business Combination as if we were a domestic corporation. Although Section 7874(b) should not apply to treat us as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the Business Combination should be treated as part of the same transaction and, therefore, this 80% threshold was not reached, due to the absence of full guidance on how the rules of Section 7874(b) will apply to the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination, this result is not entirely free from doubt. As a result, stockholders and warrant holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors on this issue. We intend to take the position that we are a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The immediately following two risk factors assume that we will be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of ordinary shares or warrants of SearchMedia. We will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of its gross income (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the expected composition of the assets and income of the Company and our subsidiaries after the Business Combination, it is not anticipated that we will be treated as a PFIC following the Business Combination. The actual PFIC status of the Company for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until the conclusion of our taxable year, and accordingly there can be no assurance as to the status of the Company as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. holders of our securities are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. 27 Table of Contents If you acquire (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10% or more of our shares, you may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. In addition, if a person that is or was a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a CFC during the 5-year period ending on the date on which such person sells or exchanges shares of stock of such corporation recognizes gain such a sale or such person as a dividend to the extent of earnings and profits of the corporation attributable to such stock that were accumulated while such person held the stock while the corporation was a CFC. After 2010, dividends may be taxed at higher rates than long-term capital gains. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the corporation. A “10% U.S. Shareholder” is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a CFC, and therefore whether the more-than-50% and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities or shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. U.S. holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules. Risks Relating to Our Stockholders and Warrant holders We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to the warrant holders, preventing such holders from realizing the potential economic value of their warrants. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act, we may redeem all of the currently outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sale price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Calling all of such warrants for redemption could force the warrant holders to: • exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price for such warrants at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so; • sell the warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants; or • accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants, which may significantly reduce their economic value and create liability for us. Holders of our warrants will be able to receive shares upon the exercise of the warrants as long as: • Our current registration statement on Form F-3 or a similar registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the ordinary shares underlying the warrants remains effective; and 28 Table of Contents • such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. A registration statement on Form F-3 covering the shares underlying the warrants was declared effective as of September 27, 2011. Some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants for sale. The value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if the registration statement on Form F-3 covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants does not remain effective or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. We have agreed to qualify for sale the common stock underlying our warrants in each state in which the units issued in the Ideation initial public offering were initially offered. However we did not agree to qualify such securities in any other state. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised, which could result in the filing of claims against and other losses for us. The Company has extended the expiration dates of certain existing warrants from between November 2012 to December 2013. 