D. Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business and Operations There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our ongoing financing needs as well as to obtain third party financing. As indicated in the report on our financial statements issued by our auditors, Marcum Bernstein & Pinchuk LLP, there is “substantial doubt” about our ability to continue as a going 6 Table of Contents concern. As of December 31, 2010 our current liabilities exceeded our current assets by $39.4 million and our net shareholders’ equity was $0.5 million. Our cash and cash equivalent as of December 31, 2010 was $7.6 million. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debts and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may (i) seek additional financing, (ii) dispose of certain assets or (iii) seek to refinance some or all of our debts. We are also taking a number of other actions to address the issue, including amendment of earn-out agreements which provides for extension of the payment time period, seeking funding from existing shareholders and adopting other cost-saving strategies. We cannot assure you that any of the alternatives above can be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. The inclusion of the substantial doubt language in the audit report about our ability to continue as a going concern could affect our ability to obtain financing from third parties or could result in increased costs of such financing. We may not have sufficient liquidity to pay earn-out payments when they come due, which could materially and adversely affect our operations. We are obligated to pay earn-out payments over the next two to three years in connection with our acquisitions of a number of advertising businesses. We estimate that $29.0 million is payable within the next twelve months from the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F and $10.2 million is payable after the next twelve months. We also estimate that more than 50% of the earn-out payable is payable in stock. Based on the current cash position and forecast for the rest of the payment period we believe that we currently do not have sufficient capital to pay the required cash earn-out payments over the next twelve months. In addition, due to a variety of factors which cannot presently be ascertained, including without limitation, the amount of working capital that we have available, and the financial performance of both the company and the acquired companies entitled to receive an earn-out payment, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient liquidity to meet our long-term earn-out obligations. If such failure cannot be remedied through renegotiation of the terms of such earn-outs with the acquiring companies or the raising of the required proceeds on reasonable terms, our operations are likely to be adversely and materially impacted. We have a history of significant operating losses and our future revenue and operating profitability are uncertain. We recorded a net loss of $46.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and we ended the year with an accumulated deficit of $122.2 million. In addition, we recorded a net loss of approximately $22.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Loss from operations reduced from $7.5 million in 2009 to $4.2 million in 2010. The greater net loss in 2010 was due to impairment charges which were non-cash. We may continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future, and such losses may be substantial. We will need to increase revenue in order to generate sustainable operating profit. Given our history of operating losses, we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve operating profitability on an annual basis. Our failure to achieve profitability could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and we have had to restate our historical financial statements. In August 2010, we announced that we would restate the financial statements of SearchMedia International as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008, to, among other things, correct an overstatement of revenue $47.0 million in 2008. We restated our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was filed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the SEC on November 1, 2010. After the Business Combination and in connection with our preparation of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed November 1, 2010, we identified accounting irregularities and potential financial and operational improprieties, relating to transactions and financial reporting matters that occurred under the management of SearchMedia International before the Business Combination, which were not previously identified as a result of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses relate to, among other things: (i) recording of various erroneous transactions by certain employees; (ii) recording of certain assets and other accounting irregularities related to acquisitions; (iii) diligence and approval of questionable transactions; and (iv) confirmation of payments related to acquisitions. 7 Table of Contents We have implemented and we plan to further implement steps to address these material weaknesses and improve our internal control over financial reporting. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address these control weaknesses, and to date these control weaknesses have not been remediated in full. If we fail to implement and maintain the adequate internal control procedures in a timely manner, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, we cannot be certain we will effectively remediate our control weaknesses or that restatements will not occur in the future. The preparation and filing of restatements could create a significant strain on our internal resources and cause delays in our filing of quarterly or annual financial results, increase our financial accounting and related costs, and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. We are subject to ongoing securities litigation and a government inquiry in the United States. We and certain of our current and former directors and executive officers are defendants in a federal securities class action in the United States. The amended complaint alleges that the defendants violated Sections 10(b), 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 10b-5 and 14a-9 thereunder by making false and misleading statements regarding our acquisition of SearchMedia International and by overstating SearchMedia International’s financial results during the period April 1, 2009 through August 20, 2010 (“Proposed Class Period”). The Company and certain of its co-defendants have moved to dismiss the claims asserted against them. We cannot predict the outcome of the motion to dismiss. Moreover, we cannot predict if the court will certify a class. In addition, we have been notified that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Los Angeles Regional Office, is conducting a formal investigation regarding the issues that are the subject of our restatement of financial results announced on August 20, 2010. We are cooperating fully with the SEC during this investigation process. We cannot predict the cost or potential liabilities associated with responding to the SEC investigation or any related investigations or litigation that may arise from the matters under inquiry. We have notified our insurance carriers of these matters. One carrier, which issued a directors’ and officers’ liability policy that applies to part of the Proposed Class Period, has informed the Company that it formed the view that its policy does not provide coverage for these matters. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our insurance carriers will cover all or part of the defense costs, or any liabilities that may arise from these matters. Litigation and regulatory actions or proceedings can be time consuming and expensive, and could divert management time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We also may be subject to claims for indemnification related to these matters, and we cannot predict the impact that indemnification claims may have on our business or financial results. Finally, we cannot provide any assurance that the final outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Deterioration of economic conditions and a resulting decrease in demand for advertising services would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. Demand for our advertising services, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients on our network, is affected significantly by prevailing economic conditions. The current economic downturns in global markets have impacted, and are expected to further impact, materially and adversely, the advertising spending of our existing and potential multinational clients and, as the crisis spreads to China, the advertising spending of our existing and potential domestic clients. With a severe decline in economic conditions, clients who would normally spend on a broad range of traditional and new media may curtail their overall spending or concentrate their advertising spending on one medium. As we derive most of our revenues from our billboard and in-elevator advertising networks, a decrease in demand for advertising media in general and for our advertising media or advertising networks in particular would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. In addition, our clients who are adversely affected by the worsened economic conditions may delay paying the advertising fees to us, which would adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents A business strategy of making acquisitions subjects us to all of the risks inherent in identifying, acquiring and operating newly acquired businesses. Our growth strategy includes acquiring new businesses to complement and expand our existing operations. In the future, we may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that we believe could complement or expand our current business or offer growth opportunities. To that end, we may spend significant management time and resources in analyzing and negotiating acquisitions or investments that are not consummated. The ongoing process of integrating these businesses is distracting, time consuming, expensive, and requires continuous optimization and allocation of resources. Additionally, if we use stock as consideration, this would have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. If we use cash, this would reduce our liquidity and impact our financial flexibility. We may seek debt financing for particular acquisitions, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We face all the risks associated with a business acquisition strategy, including, but not limited to: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses, including the diversion of management attention and the redeployment of resources; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • failure to identify in due diligence key issues specific to the businesses we seek to acquire or the industries or other environments in which they operate, or, failure to protect against contingent liabilities arising from those issues; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • difficulties in integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations which will likely be geographically separated and may involve diverse business operations and corporate cultures; • difficulties in integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • potential loss of key employees, clients or distribution partners of the acquired businesses; • difficulties in incorporating the acquired business into our organization; • the potential loss of customers, distributors or suppliers; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with our advertisers; • difficulties in integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; • the potential for future impairments of goodwill if the acquired business does not perform as expected; • the inability to obtain necessary government approvals for the acquisition, if any; and • successfully operating the acquired business. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. 9 Table of Contents Failure to manage our growth could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and growth potential. We experienced rapid expansion in recent years, which resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demand on our management resources. To manage our growth, we must develop and improve our existing administrative and operational systems and our financial and management controls, and further expand, train and manage our work force. We also need to incur substantial costs and spend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. We may not have the resources to revamp our systems and controls, recruit or train our personnel, or afford to incur the costs and expenses in order to successfully manage our growth. Failure to manage our growth may materially and adversely affect our business and growth potential. Future charges due to possible impairments of acquired assets may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may be subject to future impairment that would result in financial statement write-offs. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 57.5% of our total assets at December 31, 2010. If there is a material change in our business operations or prospects, the value of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future could decrease significantly. On an ongoing basis and at least annually, we will evaluate, partially based on discounted expected future cash flows, whether the carrying value of such intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We face significant competition for advertising spending from operators of new and traditional advertising networks. If we cannot successfully compete, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We face competition for general advertising spending from operators of many other forms of advertising networks, such as television, print media, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising. Our success depends on the continuing and increased interest of advertising clients and agencies in in-elevator, outdoor billboard, transit advertising as components of their advertising strategies. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that the viewing public is not receptive to advertising platforms we offer or that these platforms do not provide sufficient value as effective advertising mediums. If we cannot successfully compete for advertising spending against traditional, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to operate our business, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For in-elevator and billboard advertising spending, we face competition from different players across different platforms and in different cities where we operate. For our in-elevator advertising platform, we compete primarily against large regional operators and other nationwide operators some of which have substantially more financial resources than we have. For our billboard advertising platform, we compete against mostly local or regional outdoor billboard owners and operators, as the outdoor billboard market in China is largely fragmented. For our transit advertising platform, we compete against other seasoned operators. We compete for advertising spending on these platforms generally on the basis of network coverage, service quality and brand name. If we cannot compete successfully for advertising spending on these platforms, our market share and our results of operations would suffer. We have a limited operating history which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. SearchMedia International entered the out-of-home advertising market in 2005. We have been a public company since 2009. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history for our current operations upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business and our acceptance by advertisers. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with site owners, managers and sublessors that provide us access to desirable locations and network platforms, our growth potential and our business could be harmed. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely on our ability to provide a large network of our media products across media platforms at desirable locations. The effectiveness of our network also depends on the cooperation of site owners and managers to allow us to install the desired types of frames at the desired spots on their properties and, for in-elevator advertising, to keep the elevators in operation and accessible to the viewing public. To address these needs, we must develop and maintain business relationships with site managers and owners and, for a portion of our network, sublessors that consist primarily of advertising companies. Since the ownership of residential and office buildings are fragmented, maintaining these relationships requires considerable operational resources in terms of contract management and site development and maintenance personnel. If we fail to devote the necessary resources to maintaining these relationships or if we fail to perform our obligations under the existing leases, these lessors and sublessors may terminate their leases with us or not renew them upon expiration. In some cases, we have not maintained good relations and some of our leases have been terminated or may be terminated in the future. As there is a limited supply of billboards at desirable locations and a limited number of subway stations, the termination of a significant number of the leases for billboards and light boxes at subway stations could harm our multi-platform growth and operation strategies and our business and prospects could suffer as a result. Failures to obtain site owners’ consents or objections from site owners to the installations of our media products could lead to termination of our contracts or installations, which would harm our results of operations. PRC real estate laws and regulations require that we obtain prior consent of site owners and managers for any commercial use of public areas or facilities of residential properties. We generally enter into display placement agreements with site managers. To comply with PRC real estate laws and regulations, we also need to obtain or urge site managers to obtain prior consent of site owners committees or site owners. In some circumstances, it is difficult to locate site owners. If we enter into an agreement for display placement with a site manager without the consent from the relevant site owners, we could be subject to fines of up to RMB0.2 million (approximately $29,000) for each site and be required to remove our advertising posters from the affected building. In addition, site owners who object to the installation of poster frames in their buildings may cause site managers to terminate or fail to renew site contracts with us, which would harm our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain or retain desirable placement locations for our advertising poster frames and outdoor billboards on commercially advantageous terms, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our cost of revenues consists primarily of operating lease cost of advertising space for displaying advertisements, depreciation of advertisement display equipment, amortization of intangible assets relating to lease agreements and direct staff and material costs associated with production and installation of advertisement content. Our operating lease cost represents a significant portion of our cost of revenues. In 2009 and 2010, our operating lease cost accounted for 84.4% and 91.4%, respectively, of our cost of revenues and 62.0% and 64.3% respectively, of our total revenues. In the future, we may need to pay higher amounts in order to renew existing leases, obtain new and desirable locations, or secure exclusivity and other favorable terms. If we are unable to secure commercially advantageous terms or pass increased location costs onto our advertising clients through rate increases, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The shareholders of Jingli Shanghai may have potential conflicts of interest with us. The shareholders of Jingli Shanghai are also the founders and shareholders of the Company. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as shareholders of both Jingli Shanghai and the Company may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of the Company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause Jingli Shanghai to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to effectively control Jingli Shanghai and receive economic benefits from it. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain and could be disruptive to our business. 11 Table of Contents Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily on the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees, their industry expertise, their experience in business operations and sales and marketing, and their working relationships with our advertising clients as well as the site owners, property developers, property management companies, homeowner associations and relevant government authorities that affect the site contracts with us. We do not have a long history of working with some of these senior executives and key employees. If one or more of our senior executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, site contracts, key professionals and staff members. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers, which agreement contains non-competition provisions. However, if a dispute arises between us and our executive officers, there is no assurance that any of these agreements could be enforced, or to what extent they could be enforced, in China, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. If we are unable to adapt to changing advertising trends of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues, which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and revenues. The competitive market for out-of-home advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends of advertisers and consumers. In response to these new advertising trends, we may need to quickly develop and adopt new formats, features and enhancements for our advertising network and/or cost-effectively expand into additional advertising media and platforms beyond in-elevator, billboards, and transit platform advertising. We may be required to incur, but may not have the financial resources necessary to fund, development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new advertising trends. If we fail to identify or respond adequately to these changing advertising trends, demand for our advertising network and services may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. Our growth could suffer if we fail to expand our media networks to include new media offerings, media platforms or enter into new markets. Currently, our network primarily consists of in-elevator, outdoor billboard and transit advertising. Our growth strategy includes broadening our service offerings and possibly entering into new advertising markets. It is difficult to predict whether consumers and advertising clients will accept our entry into new media markets or accept the new media products or platforms we may offer. It is also difficult to predict whether we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs of entering into these new markets or introducing these new products or new media platforms. We may also have limited or no prior experience working with these new products, platforms or markets. If we fail to expand our media network to include new media products, platforms or markets, our growth could suffer as a result. If site managers or owners shut down our displays for site maintenance or other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. Under certain site leasing contracts we entered into with site managers or owners, site managers or owners have the right to shut down our displays with prior written notice if they need to inspect or maintain the sites where we have installed advertising displays, or for other reasons such as facility reconstruction. However, under our contracts with our advertising clients, if these displays are shut down for an extended period of time, we are required to substitute these suspended displays with alternative displays. If we cannot reach an agreement with our clients on the alternative displays, we could be required to refund the advertising fees paid by these clients. If a substantial number of our displays are shut down by site managers within a short time period, we may not be able to locate alternative display locations and may incur substantial remedial costs. Our relationships with our advertising clients could also suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business may adversely affect our business and reputation. We have historically relied on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with all our employees. We cannot assure you that these confidentiality agreements will not be breached, or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. We are still in the process of registering in China the “SearchMedia” trademark and logo used in our business. We cannot assure you that our trademark application will ultimately proceed to registration or will result in registration with scope adequate for our business. Some of our pending applications or registration may be successfully challenged or invalidated by others. If our trademark application is not successful, we may have to use different marks for affected services or technologies, or enter into arrangements with any third parties who may have prior registrations, applications or rights, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, monitoring and preventing unauthorized use of our trademarks and other intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on computer software and hardware systems in managing our operations; any failure in these systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our computer software and hardware systems in supporting the sales, scheduling and maintenance of our network. In addition, we rely on our computer hardware for the storage and delivery of the data on our network. Any system failure which causes interruptions to the input and retrieval of data or increases our service time could disrupt our normal network operations. In addition, computer hackers infecting our network with viruses could cause our network to become unavailable. Although we believe that our disaster recovery plan is adequate to handle the failure of our computer software and hardware systems, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively carry out this disaster recovery plan or that we would be able to restore our network operations fast enough to avoid a significant disruption to our business. Any failure in our computer software and/or hardware systems could decrease our revenues and harm our relationships with advertisers and target audiences, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no business liability, disruption or litigation insurance, and we could incur substantial costs if our business is disrupted due to natural disasters, litigation or other business interruptions. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption coverage for our operations in China. All industries are subject to legal claims. As a public company, we are particularly susceptible to securities and derivative lawsuits. These claims may be costly to defend and divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing advertising clients, attract new advertising clients and satisfy our clients’ demands; • the frequency of our clients’ advertisements on our network; • remaining competitive with the pricing strategies of our competitors; • effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate alliances or acquired businesses into our business; • changes in government regulations in relation to the advertising industry; • lower advertising spending immediately following a major holiday season in China; and • economic and geopolitical conditions in China and elsewhere. Many of the factors discussed above are beyond our control, making our results difficult to predict from period to period. Although we did not experience significant seasonality in our business, except for generally lower sales in periods immediately following major holiday seasons historically, you should not rely on our operating results for prior periods as an indication of our future results. If our revenues for a particular period are lower than expected, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that period by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that period relative to our operating results from other periods. Risks Relating to Doing Business in the People’s Republic of China If the PRC government determines that the contractual arrangements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Applicable PRC laws and regulations currently require any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry in China to have at least two years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. We are a Cayman Islands corporation and a foreign legal person under Chinese laws. Before we acquired 100% of the equity interests of Ad-Icon in 2008, we had not directly operated an advertising business outside of China and thus could not qualify for the requirement of minimum two years experience outside China under PRC regulations. Accordingly, our subsidiary, Jieli Consulting, is currently ineligible to apply for the required business license for providing advertising services in China. Therefore, we entered into contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entity in China, Jingli Shanghai, and prior to formation of Jingli Shanghai, we operated our advertising business through Shanghai Sige Advertising and Media Co., Ltd., or Sige, Shenzhen Dale Advertising Co., Ltd., or Dale and Beijing Conghui Advertising Co., Ltd., or Conghui. Jingli Shanghai is currently owned by two PRC citizens, Ms. Qinying Liu and Ms. Le Yang, and holds the requisite business license to provide advertising services in China. Jingli Shanghai and its subsidiaries directly operate a portion of our advertising network, enter into display placement agreements and sell advertising spaces to our clients with respect to certain of our operating subsidiaries. In 2010, Ad-Icon Shanghai, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ad-Icon, acquired some of Jingli Shanghai’s subsidiaries and operates advertising business through such subsidiaries. Before the remaining subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai are acquired by Ad-Icon Shanghai, we are expected to continue to be dependent on Jingli Shanghai and its subsidiaries to operate a portion of our advertising business. We do not have any equity interest in Jingli Shanghai but receive the economic benefits and assume the economic risks of it through various contractual arrangements and certain corporate governance and shareholder rights arrangements. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Jingli Shanghai and each of the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai which allow us to exert control over Jingli Shanghai. 14 Table of Contents If we, Jieli Consulting, Jieli Network, Jingli Shanghai or any of our future PRC subsidiaries are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of Jingli Shanghai or our PRC subsidiary and other affiliated entities, if any; • discontinuing or restricting the operations of any transactions among our PRC subsidiary, Jingli Shanghai and its shareholders; • imposing fines, confiscating the income of Jingli Shanghai or our income, or imposing other requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of the Business Combination to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, and our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with Jingli Shanghai and its shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as would be the case through ownership of a controlling equity interest in such operating entities. In April 2008, we acquired 100% of the equity interest in Ad-Icon, a Hong Kong company, which operates an outdoor billboard advertising business. In December 2009, Ad-Icon established Ad-Icon Shanghai in China. In 2010, Ad-Icon Shanghai acquired most of the subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai, but as of the date of filing of the Annual Report on Form 20-F, Ad-Icon Shanghai has not acquired all remaining subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with Jingli Shanghai and its shareholders to operate a portion of our business in China before we complete the acquisition of all subsidiaries of Jingli Shanghai. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Information on the Company —Organizational Structure — Contractual Arrangements with Jingli Shanghai and its Shareholders” in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. These contractual arrangements include an equity pledge agreement, under which the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai pledged their equity interests in Jingli Shanghai to Jieli Consulting. Such pledge was duly created by recording the pledge on Jingli Shanghai’s register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Collateral Law. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, effective as of October 1, 2007, the pledge needs to be registered with the relevant local branch of the Shanghai Administration of Industry and Commerce. Jingli Shanghai successfully registered the pledge with the Shanghai Administration of Industry and Commerce Chongming Sub-bureau on February 2, 2009. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as ownership of a controlling equity interest would be in providing us with control over Jingli Shanghai. Under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Jingli Shanghai or any of its shareholders fails to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of Jingli Shanghai were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in Jingli Shanghai to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith towards us, we may have to take legal action to compel them to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, we may not be able to renew these contracts with Jingli Shanghai and/or its shareholders. 15 Table of Contents In addition, if Jingli Shanghai or all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Jingli Shanghai undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to generate revenue. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our affiliated entity, and our ability to conduct our business may be materially and negatively affected. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations or government’s control over capital investments and foreign currencies. As the PRC economy is increasingly linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent financial and economic crises. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The various economic and policy measures enacted by the PRC government to forestall economic downturns or shore up the PRC economy may not succeed and our business could be negatively affected as a result. If advertising registration certificates are not obtained for advertisements on our outdoor billboard or rapid transit networks, we may be subject to fines. On May 22, 2006, the SAIC amended the Provisions on the Registration Administration of Outdoor Advertisements, or the new outdoor advertisement provisions. Pursuant to the new outdoor advertisement provisions, advertisements placed on posters, digital displays, light boxes, neon lights via outdoor premises, space, facilities, as well as those placed in rapid transit stations are treated as outdoor advertisements and must be registered in accordance with the local SAIC by “advertising distributors” and advertising registration certificates must be obtained. After review and examination, if an application complies with the requirements, the local SAIC will issue an Outdoor Advertising Registration Certificate for such advertisement. The content, format, specifications, periods and locations of dissemination of the outdoor advertisement must be submitted for filing with the local SAIC. We require advertisers to apply for and obtain the registration certificates for their advertisements. If an advertiser displays an advertisement without the requisite registration, the relevant local SAICs may require us to disgorge advertising revenues or may impose fines on us. 16 Table of Contents Our outdoor billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to municipal zoning requirements, governmental approvals and administrative controls. If we are required to tear down our billboards, light boxes or neon signs as a result of these requirements, approvals or controls, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our billboards, light boxes and neon signs are subject to local regulations which may impose detailed requirements regarding municipal zoning requirements and governmental approvals. Each outdoor placement and installation may require a license with specific terms of use. If we, or our lessors or sublessors, violate the terms of the license for the relevant placement and installation for a billboard, light box or neon sign, we could be required to tear it down. We may also be required to tear it down as result of change of municipal zoning requirements or actions taken by local authorities for city beautification, clean-up or other purposes. If we lose a significant number of billboards, light boxes and/or neon signs as a result, our business operations would be materially and adversely impacted. Moreover, if we are unable to perform our advertising contracts as a result of these losses, we may incur remedial costs and our relationships with our advertising clients and financial results could be harmed as a result. If we were deemed a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we could be subject to tax on our global income and our non-PRC shareholders could be subject to certain PRC taxes. Under the New PRC Enterprise Tax law effective January 1, 2008, or the EIT law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise” and will be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its global income. The implementing rules of the EIT law define “de facto management” as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. The State Tax Administration issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by PRC individuals, like our company, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. If we were to be considered a “resident enterprise” by the PRC tax authorities, our global income would be subject to tax under the EIT law at the rate of 25% and, to the extent we were to generate substantial amount of income outside of PRC in the future, we would be subject to additional taxes. In addition, if we were to be considered a “resident enterprise,” the dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to withholding tax and our non-PRC enterprise shareholders would be subject to a 10% income tax on any gains they would realize from the transfer of their shares, if such income were sourced from within the PRC. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, no final interpretations on the implementation of the “resident enterprise” designation are available for companies such as ours. Moreover, any such designation, when made by PRC tax authorities, will be determined based on the facts and circumstances of individual cases. As a result, we cannot currently determine the likelihood of the Company being designated a “resident enterprise”. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In 17 Table of Contents addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after a violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the content and services we provide through our network. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including businesses such as ours, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute are fair and accurate and are in full compliance with applicable law. Violations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In cases involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke an offender’s license for advertising business operations. As an operator of an advertising medium, we are obligated under PRC law to monitor the advertising content displayed on our network for compliance with applicable law. Although the advertisements displayed on our network may have been previously displayed over public media, we may be required to separately and independently vet these advertisements for content compliance before displaying them on our networks. In addition, for advertising content related to certain types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertiser’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filings with the local authorities. Previously, we did not strictly abide by these requirements. We have remedied this noncompliance and have, among other things, employed qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurances that we will not be penalized for our past noncompliance or that each advertisement provided by an advertising client is in compliance with relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or that the supporting documentation and government approvals provided by our advertising clients are accurate and complete. Moreover, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our network. If consumers find the content displayed on our network to be offensive, site managers and owners may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims against them or may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached and unauthorized images or text are displayed on our network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images or text to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure, and harm our reputation. If our viewers do not believe our content is reliable and accurate, our business model may become less appealing to them and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our network. Government censure, investigation or any other government action, or any civil suits against us could divert management time and resources and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Governmental control of currency conversion may materially and adversely affect the value of your investment. Substantial limitations may be imposed on the removal of funds from the PRC to the Company, or the infusion of funds by us to our subsidiaries and affiliates located in the PRC. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with 18 Table of Contents certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our parent, the Company. As dividends from Chinese operations will be the primary source of revenue production for us, failure to be able to receive such dividends could materially and adversely impact the value of your Company shares and could make it impossible for us to meet our cash flow requirements. On August 29, 2008, SAFE issued the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or Circular No. 142. Pursuant to Circular No. 142, the RMB fund from the settlement of foreign currency capital of a foreign-invested enterprise must be used within the business scope as approved by the examination and approval department of the government, and cannot be used for domestic equity investment unless it is otherwise provided for Documents certifying the purposes of the RMB fund from the settlement of foreign currency capital including a business contract must also be submitted for the settlement of the foreign currency. We used to provide loans to Jingli Shanghai in RMB settled from foreign currency capital of Jieli Consulting and Jieli Network. With the strengthened administration on settlement of foreign currency, these previous loan arrangements may no longer be feasible. If the foreign exchange control system prevents Jingli Shanghai from obtaining sufficient RMB to satisfy its currency demands, the operation of the Company may be materially and adversely affected. Our subsidiary in Hong Kong, Ad-Icon Company Limited, on December 11, 2009, established Ad-Icon Advertising (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary in China, which is permitted to operate advertising business in China. Through Ad-Icon Shanghai, we can enter into advertising contracts directly with clients and submit those contracts for the purpose of settling foreign currencies. In the meantime, we can submit the business contracts between Jieli Consulting/Jieli Network and Jingli Shanghai for the purpose of settling foreign currencies. According to our PRC counsel to the Company, both alternatives are permissible under PRC laws. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may prevent us from making loans or capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates, any loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated PRC affiliates are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: • loans by us to our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China, each of which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance the activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with SAFE, or its local counterpart; and • loans by us to Jingli Shanghai, which is a domestic PRC entity, may require the approval from the relevant government authorities or registration with SAFE or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our wholly-owned subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. Because Jingli Shanghai is a domestic PRC entity, we are not likely to finance our activities by means of capital contributions due to regulatory issues relating to foreign investment in domestic PRC entities, as well as the licensing and other regulatory issues discussed in the “Business — Regulatory Matters” section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries or Jingli Shanghai. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. 19 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese RMB appreciated approximately 6.4%, less than 1.0% and 3.0% against the U.S. dollar in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government will adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of Chinese RMB against the U.S. dollar. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in Renminbi. Thus, a resumption of the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would, for instance, further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as we principally rely on dividends and other distributions paid to us by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China, any significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our preferred or ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Any fluctuation of the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar could also result in foreign current translation losses for financial reporting purposes. Any health epidemics and other outbreaks, or war, acts of terrorism and other man -made or natural disasters could severely disrupt our business operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian influenza, H1N1 Flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian influenza and H1N1 Flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian influenza, H1N1 Flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could require the temporary closure of our offices or prevent our staff from traveling to our clients’ offices to sell our services or provide on site services. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including snowstorms, earthquakes, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur in the future, our ability to operate our business could be materially impaired. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder. The company’s conduct of its corporate affairs will be governed by its Memorandum and Articles of Association, and the Company is subject at all times to the Companies Law (2010 Revision) of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders and the fiduciary duties of the directors under Cayman Islands law are governed by the Companies Law (2010 Revision) and/or common law principles derived from cases in the Cayman Islands and in the courts of England (English case law is not binding but is considered persuasive in the courts of the Cayman Islands). The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary duties of directors under Cayman Islands law differ from those established under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. Additionally, the removal of a director from our Board, even for cause, may in certain circumstances require the approval of our shareholders. Also, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law compared to the United States and less developed or judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law compared to many U.S. states, including Delaware. 20 Table of Contents In the future, our Board of Directors may be subject to potential deadlock. Pursuant to the share exchange agreement and Business Combination, we entered into a voting agreement with China Seed Ventures, L.P., Qinyng Liu, Le Yang, Vervain Equity Investment Limited, Sun Hing Associates Limited, and Linden Ventures, each a previous SearchMedia International shareholder or warrantholder, and Frost Gamma Investments Trust, Robert Fried, Rao Uppaluri, Steven Rubin and Jane Hsiao, each a previous Ideation shareholder, which provides, among other things, that, for a period which commenced on October 30, 2009 and ends on October 30, 2012, each party to the voting agreement will agree to vote in favor of the director nominees nominated by the Ideation representative and the SM Cayman shareholders’ representatives as provided in the share exchange agreement. Our Articles of Association require the approval by a majority of the Directors for many corporate actions. Although our current Board of Directors presently consists of five members, there may be occasions when the previous SearchMedia International shareholders and warrantholders exercise their contractual right to fill the vacancies, which could result in an even number of six or eight board members. Because there are no mechanisms in the voting agreement or our Articles of Association which provide a mechanism to resolve a Board deadlock, it is possible that our Board of Directors may be unable to obtain majority approval in certain circumstances, which would prevent us from taking actions that may be important to our business and operations. As a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from certain SEC requirements that provide stockholders with protections and information that must be made available to stockholders of U.S. public companies. On June 30, 2010, we became a foreign private issuer, which reduces the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, resulting in fewer costs associated with financial and reporting compliance. For example, as a foreign private issuer we will be exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies, including: • the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 6-K or current reports on Form 6-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material non-public information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions, or a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months. As a foreign private issuer, we will file an annual report on Form 20-F within six months of the close of fiscal year 2010, and within four months of each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2011, and reports on Form 6-K relating to certain material events promptly after we publicly announces these events. However, because of the foregoing filing exemptions, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our ordinary shares for the foreseeable future, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our ordinary shares only if those shares appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deem relevant, including, among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, the terms of our credit facilities, if any, and any other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our ordinary shares, and there is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value. 21 Table of Contents Voting control by executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the company may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring shareholder approval. The executive officers, directors and other affiliates of the Company own over 38% of our voting shares. These shareholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of ordinary shares or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. The NYSE Amex may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. On April 8, 2011, we received notice of noncompliance with Section 704 of the NYSE Amex Company Guide, which required us to hold our stockholders annual meeting during 2010 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. The Exchange notified us on May 5, 2011 that it accepted our plan dated April 6, 2011 and granted us an extension until October 4, 2011 to regain compliance with continued listing standards. We will be subject to periodic review by Exchange Staff during its extension period. This Form 20-F is being filed on June 30, 2011 and we expect to hold our annual general stockholders meeting before the October 4, 2011 deadline. Following the annual general stockholders meeting, we anticipate that we will be in compliance with Section 704 of the Company Guide. A significant number of shares are eligible for future sale by our stockholders and the sale of those shares could adversely affect the stock price. A significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock became eligible for resale beginning October 30, 2010, as a result of the expiration of lock up provisions on resale. If our stockholders whose shares are eligible for resale sell or attempt to sell their stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes after the Business Combination, which could result in significantly greater U.S. federal income tax liability to us. Section 7874(b) of the Code generally provides that a corporation organized outside the United States which acquires, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired corporation, by reason of owning shares of the acquired corporation, own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) were to apply to the conversion, then we, as the surviving entity, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its worldwide taxable income following the Business Combination as if we were a domestic corporation. 22 Table of Contents Although Section 7874(b) should not apply to treat us as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the Business Combination should be treated as part of the same transaction and, therefore, this 80% threshold was not reached, due to the absence of full guidance on how the rules of Section 7874(b) will apply to the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination, this result is not entirely free from doubt. As a result, stockholders and warrant holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors on this issue. We intend to take the position that we are a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The immediately following two risk factors assume that we will be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of ordinary shares or warrants of SearchMedia. We will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of its gross income (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the expected composition of the assets and income of the Company and our subsidiaries after the Business Combination, it is not anticipated that we will be treated as a PFIC following the Business Combination. The actual PFIC status of the Company for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until the conclusion of our taxable year, and accordingly there can be no assurance as to the status of the Company as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. holders of our securities are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. If you acquire (directly, indirectly, or constructively) 10% or more of our shares, you may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. In addition, if a person that is or was a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a CFC during the 5-year period ending on the date on which such person sells or exchanges shares of stock of such corporation recognizes gain such a sale or such person as a dividend to the extent of earnings and profits of the corporation attributable to such stock that were accumulated while such person held the stock while the corporation was a CFC. After 2010, dividends may be taxed at higher rates than long-term capital gains. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the corporation. A “10% U.S. Shareholder” is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a CFC, and therefore whether the more-than-50% and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities or shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. U.S. holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Stockholders and Warrant holders We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to the warrant holders, preventing such holders from realizing the potential economic value of their warrants. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act, we may redeem all of the currently outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sale price of our ordinary shares equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Calling all of such warrants for redemption could force the warrant holders to: • exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price for such warrants at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so; • sell the warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants; or • accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants, which may significantly reduce their economic value and create liability for us. Holders of our warrants will be able to receive shares upon exercise of the warrants only if: • a current registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the ordinary shares underlying the warrants is then effective; and • such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. A registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants is not currently effective. In addition, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants for sale. The value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not filed and declared effective or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. We have agreed to qualify for sale the common stock underlying our warrants in each state in which the units issued in the Ideation IPO were initially offered. However we did not agree to qualify such securities in any other state. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised, which could result in the filing of claims against and other losses for us. 