Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information about risks, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in our common stock. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arises or occurs, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy We have a limited operating history, expect future losses, and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability. We were founded on May 1, 2007 and to date we have engaged primarily in development of and initial clinical trials of our external saphenous vein support system, or eSVS Mesh. Accordingly, we have limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $29.9 million. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing medical devices, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. To date, we have not generated sufficient product revenues to fund our operations and we have financed our operations and internal growth primarily through public offerings completed in December 2012 and February 2011 and private placements of equity securities and convertible promissory notes. Our prospects must be considered in light of the significant risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by medical device companies in their early stage of development. We may not be successful in addressing the risks we will encounter, and our failure to do so would likely harm our business and our ability to continue to operate. The results of our initial human trial were inconclusive with respect to the efficacy of our eSVS Mesh and if we are unable to conclusively demonstrate the efficacy of our eSVS Mesh through additional human trials, we may be unable to commercialize our eSVS Mesh in the United States or other major markets or may experience significant delays in doing so. Our time and financial resources since our inception have largely been devoted to the development of our eSVS Mesh. We have only completed one human clinical trial of 90 patients for our eSVS Mesh, which was conducted outside of the United States. The safety data from this trial has indicated that our eSVS Mesh and implant procedure do not result in an increase in patient complications during or in the 30 days after surgery. However, the effectiveness data from the trial is inconclusive primarily due to two complicating factors. First, one of the centers participating in the trial used implant methods incompatible with our eSVS Mesh. Second, the amount of reduction in the diameter of the saphenous vein grafts, or downsizing, prescribed in our instructions for use and sizing tool was too aggressive, 27 Table of Contents resulting in a higher than anticipated closure rate in saphenous vein grafts ("SVG") utilizing our eSVS Mesh, particularly when our smallest device, 3.0 millimeters, was used. As a result, based on angiographic studies nine to 12 months following surgery, 49% (36 of 73) of the eSVS Mesh vessels were patent, or open, and 81% (59 of 73) of the untreated vessels were patent. We are currently conducting a feasibility trial in the United States and Europe. This trial is a multi-center, randomized study of external saphenous vein support using our eSVS Mesh in CABG Surgery and is titled the "eMESH I" trial. The objective of this trial is to demonstrate the initial safety and performance of our eSVS Mesh for use as an external SVG support device during coronary artery bypass procedures. We expect to enroll up to 120 patients at eight European and four U.S. sites and further expect to use the data from this study as the basis for the filing of a request for an investigational device exemption ("IDE") to perform a pivotal trial in the United States and Europe. Enrollments in this trial commenced in late August 2012 at the Bern University Hospital, Bern, Switzerland and in February 2013 at the Northeast Georgia Medical Center in Gainesville, Georgia. The primary safety endpoint is the 30 day rate of MACE, defined as the rate of the composite of total mortality, myocardial infarction (heart attack), and/or coronary target vessel revascularization (percutaneous coronary intervention or CABG) within 30 days of the procedure. The primary efficacy endpoint is the angiographic patency rate of the enrolled grafts, where patency is defined as less than 75% stenosis, or blockage, of the SVG at six months after surgery. We are currently working through the internal review and approval process with a number of leading cardiac centers in Europe and the United States to expand the total number of research sites to 12. If we are unable to demonstrate with human clinical data that our eSVS Mesh is safe and improves the long term patency of saphenous vein grafts as compared to traditional CABG surgery, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our eSVS Mesh in the United States or in other countries which require us to first obtain FDA approval. We have no other products ready for clinical testing or commercialization; therefore, our ability to remain in business would be doubtful if our eSVS Mesh is not proven to be safe and effective. Our data from our clinical trials may not be sufficient for us to proceed with our planned filing of our pre-market applications for regulatory approvals in the United States or other major markets, which could delay or curtail our ability to commercialize our eSVS Mesh. If the data from our eMESH I clinical feasibility trial is not adequate, we may not proceed with our planned filing of our pre-market applications for regulatory approvals in the United States or other major markets in which the application is dependent upon us having received regulatory approval from the United States, or we may be forced to delay these filings. Even if we file an application for approval with favorable clinical data, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not accept our filing, or may request additional information, including data from additional clinical trials. Even if we receive regulatory approval, our eSVS Mesh may only be approved for very limited purposes with many restrictions on its use. Such restrictions would limit our ability to successfully commercialize our eSVS Mesh and our ability to generate revenue would be significantly impaired. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may only approve our eSVS Mesh for very limited purposes with many restrictions on its use or in limited sizes, delay approvals or ultimately may not grant marketing approval for our eSVS Mesh. Although we have obtained CE Mark approval in Europe, and even if we do receive FDA or additional foreign regulatory approval, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our eSVS Mesh in Europe, the United States or other major markets, and our ability to generate revenue would be significantly impaired. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to commercialize our eSVS Mesh in the United States or other major markets or experience significant delays in doing so, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly delayed and our business will be harmed. If we are unable to demonstrate with human clinical data that our eSVS Mesh is safe and improves the long-term patency of SVGs as compared to traditional CABG surgery, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our eSVS Mesh. We have no other products ready for clinical testing or commercialization; therefore, our ability to remain in business would be doubtful if our eSVS Mesh is not proven to be safe and effective. Our success depends on the coronary bypass graft market and the superior outcomes of coronary bypass surgery over competitive procedures, and such superior outcomes may not continue. Physicians treat coronary artery disease with methods other than CABG procedures, including interventional techniques such as balloon angioplasty, with or without the use of stents, pharmaceuticals, atherectomy catheters, and lasers. Several of these alternative treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. In addition, technological advances may result in improvements in these alternative treatments or new therapies that produce superior treatment outcomes as compared to CABG surgery. The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon physicians continuing to perform a significant number of CABG procedures and our ability to achieve and maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the coronary artery bypass field. If physicians, patients, or hospitals opt to use methods other than CABG or to use our competitors' products, our commercial opportunity will be reduced and our potential revenues will suffer. The market acceptance of new medical technologies is uncertain, and we may be unable to obtain market acceptance of our eSVS Mesh. Even if our clinical trials demonstrate that the use of our eSVS Mesh provides equivalent or more effective results as compared to coronary bypass operations using only the unsupported saphenous vein grafts and if all regulatory approvals are obtained, the success of our eSVS Mesh will depend upon the acceptance by cardiovascular and cardiothoracic surgeons of our eSVS Mesh as equivalent or better than the current procedure using unsupported saphenous veins and other available treatments. We believe that physicians' recommendations will be essential for the development and successful marketing of our eSVS Mesh, and physicians will not begin to use our eSVS Mesh unless they determine that it is a safe and effective alternative to current treatment methods. The degree of physician and market acceptance of our eSVS Mesh will depend on a number of factors, including: •the perceived effectiveness of our eSVS Mesh relative to its cost; •the prevalence and severity of any side effects; •potential advantages over alternative treatments; •publication in peer-reviewed medical journals of data regarding the successful use and longer term clinical benefits of our eSVS Mesh; •development of new products and technologies by our competitors or new alternative treatments; •regulatory developments related to manufacturing, marketing and selling our eSVS Mesh both within and outside the United States; •perceived liability risks arising out of the use of new products; 29 Table of Contents •the willingness of physicians to adopt new technologies and the ability of physicians to acquire the skills necessary to use our eSVS Mesh; •the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; and •the adequacy of third-party coverage or reimbursement. If our eSVS Mesh does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors, and patients, we may not generate meaningful revenue and we may not become profitable. In addition, we have not yet determined pricing for our eSVS Mesh and our pricing policies could adversely impact market acceptance of our eSVS Mesh as compared to competing products and treatments. Any of the foregoing factors, or other factors, could limit or detract from market acceptance of our eSVS Mesh. If our eSVS Mesh is not accepted by the market, our business would be harmed. We expect to face intense competition and the risk of obsolescence if our competitors develop products superior to our eSVS Mesh. We face competition from established medical technology, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions in the United States and abroad. Companies that have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than us may be working on products similar to our eSVS Mesh. Our eSVS Mesh may not replace current surgical techniques and other products or techniques may render our eSVS Mesh obsolete. In addition, our distributors will also face competition from established companies with significantly greater financial and marketing resources. Our competitors may produce more advanced products than ours or demonstrate superior safety of their products. Our ability to effectively compete depends on our ability to innovate successfully. Demand for our eSVS Mesh could be diminished by equivalent or superior products and technologies offered by competitors. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with, or mergers with or acquisitions by, large and established companies or through the development of novel products and technologies. Our competitive position also depends on: •obtaining any necessary United States or foreign marketing approvals; •widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the cardiovascular and cardiothoracic markets of our eSVS Mesh; •product coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, insurance companies and others; •published studies supporting the effectiveness and safety and long-term clinical benefit of our eSVS Mesh; •properly identifying customer needs and delivering new products or product enhancements to address those needs; •limiting the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; •limiting the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; •our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; •the extent of our patent protection or our ability to otherwise develop proprietary products and processes; 30 Table of Contents •our ability to maintain adequate manufacturing capacity and to source the materials and equipment required to manufacture our eSVS Mesh; and •securing sufficient capital resources to expand our research and development, sales and marketing efforts, and manufacturing capacity. If our eSVS Mesh is not competitive based on these or other factors, our business would be harmed. The market for our eSVS Mesh is rapidly changing and competitive, and new treatments which may be developed by others could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive. The industry in which we operate has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made. Our competitors may develop and commercialize medical devices that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than coronary artery bypass surgery. For example, we are aware of companies that are developing various other less invasive technologies for treating cardiovascular disease which could render our technology obsolete. We also compete in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials. All of these factors could impair our ability to maintain our technology. We have limited manufacturing resources and experience, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of our eSVS Mesh, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We have limited experience in manufacturing our eSVS Mesh and rely on outside vendors for several materials and processes. We currently manufacture our eSVS Mesh for our clinical trials, research and development purposes and commercialization at our manufacturing facility in Minnesota. If our existing manufacturing facility experiences a disruption, we would have no other means of manufacturing our eSVS Mesh until we are able to restore the manufacturing capability at our current facility or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to produce sufficient quantities of our eSVS Mesh for use in our current and planned clinical trials or for commercialization, or if our manufacturing process yields a substandard product, our regulatory, development and commercialization efforts would be delayed. In order to produce our eSVS Mesh in the quantities that will be required for commercialization, we will have to increase, or "scale up," the production process over the current level of production. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving yields, controlling and anticipating costs, quality control and assurance, supply and shortages of qualified personnel. If the scaled-up production process is not efficient or produces a product that does not meet quality and other standards, we may be unable to meet market demand and our revenues, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. The contract vendors with which we are and will be developing relationships may not have the ability to produce the quantities of the materials needed for human clinical trials or commercial sales or may not do so at prices that allow our eSVS Mesh to compete successfully in the market. Additionally, any damage to or destruction of our facilities or our equipment, prolonged power outage or contamination at our facilities would significantly impair our ability to produce our eSVS Mesh. 31 Table of Contents We depend upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide us certain components of our eSVS Mesh. We depend on these suppliers to provide us with materials in a timely manner that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements. These suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including unanticipated demand from larger customers, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction, quality or yield problems, and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these outside suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: •interruption of supply resulting from modifications to, or discontinuation of, a supplier's operations; •delays in product shipments resulting from defects, reliability issues or changes in components from suppliers; •price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; •errors in manufacturing components, which could negatively impact the effectiveness or safety of our eSVS Mesh or cause delays in shipment of our eSVS Mesh; •discontinued production of components, which could significantly delay our production and sales and impair operating margins; •an inability to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms; •difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our sole-source supplies; •delays in production and sales caused by switching components, which may require product redesign and new regulatory submissions; •delays due to evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; •non-timely delivery of components due to our suppliers manufacturing products for a range of customers; and •an inability of suppliers to fulfill orders and meet requirements because of supplier financial hardships. Other than existing, unfulfilled purchase orders, our suppliers have no contractual obligations to supply us with, and we are not contractually obligated to purchase from them, any of our supplies. Any supply interruption from our suppliers or failure to obtain additional suppliers for any of the components used in our eSVS Mesh would limit our ability to manufacture our eSVS Mesh and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lost one of our suppliers and were unable to obtain an alternate source in a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, our production schedules could be delayed, our margins could be negatively impacted, and we could fail to meet our customers' demand. Our customers will rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates and any disruption in the supply of key components would adversely affect our ability to meet these dates and could result in legal action by our customers, cause us to lose customers or harm our ability to attract new customers, any of which could decrease our revenue and negatively impact our growth. In addition, to the extent that our suppliers use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable materials or components from alternative sources. 32 Table of Contents Manufacturing operations are often faced with a supplier's decision to discontinue manufacturing a component, which may force us to make last time purchases, qualify a substitute part, or make a design change which may divert engineering time away from the development of new products. We may experience future manufacturing difficulties, and our clinical trials and our commercialization could be delayed by quality control issues in our supply and manufacturing processes. Any difficulties in locating and hiring material manufacturers or in the ability of manufacturers to supply materials at the times and in the quantities we need, and at prices that allow us to compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Therefore, even if we are able to contract with manufacturers for key materials or supplies, we may experience future manufacturing difficulties. The production of our eSVS Mesh must occur in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. In spite of stringent quality controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of defective products in a lot. In addition, we must meet certain lot release specifications before our eSVS Mesh can be shipped to our clinical trial sites or to commercial markets. If a particular lot fails to meet lot release specifications, we will not be able to ship that lot to our clinical trial sites or to commercial markets. If we are not able to maintain stringent quality controls, if contamination problems arise or if we are not able to meet our lot release specifications, our clinical trials or sales efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. We operate in foreign jurisdictions which exposes us to international business risks. As part of our product development and regulatory strategy, we intend to continue to market our eSVS Mesh internationally. There are a number of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: •potential differences in treatment protocols and methods across the markets in which we expect to market our eSVS Mesh; •potential differences in reimbursement levels and the requirements necessary to obtain such reimbursement; •general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; •potential international conflicts, including terrorist acts; •potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; •potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the United States; •difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by employees overseas or the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; •unfavorable regulations in foreign jurisdictions regarding distributors; •the deferral of revenue recognition; •longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and •import and export licensing requirements. 33 Table of Contents Any of these risks could adversely affect our international operations or financial results, which would harm our business. We could become subject to product liability claims, product recalls, other field actions and warranty claims that could be expensive, divert management's attention, and harm our business. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our eSVS Mesh results or is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects to a patient. In many jurisdictions, producers of medical products are strictly liable for personal injuries caused by medical devices. A product liability claim against us, even if we are ultimately successful in defending it, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation. We may be held liable if our eSVS Mesh causes injury or death or is found otherwise unsuitable during usage. Because our eSVS Mesh is designed to be used in complex surgical procedures, defects could result in a number of complications, including serious injury or death. It is also possible that defects in the design, manufacture or labeling of our eSVS Mesh might necessitate a product recall or other field corrective action, which may result in warranty claims beyond our expectations and may harm our reputation. We believe potential disadvantages associated with our eSVS Mesh include the possibility of allergic reaction to the implant materials and the possibility of damage to the saphenous vein during placement of our eSVS Mesh. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. We may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or with adequate amounts. A product liability claim, any product recalls or other field actions or excessive warranty claims, whether arising from defects in design or manufacture or otherwise, could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us, any of which could harm our reputation and business. If third-party payors do not provide sufficient coverage or reimbursement to healthcare providers for the use of our eSVS Mesh, our acceptance in the marketplace would be harmed. The availability of insurance coverage and reimbursement for newly approved medical devices and procedures is uncertain. Our success depends upon the use of our eSVS Mesh and whether third-party insurance coverage and reimbursement for the use of this product is available. Our success in international markets depends upon the eligibility of reimbursement for our eSVS Mesh through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and third-party payors. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country and, within some countries, by region. In many international markets, payment systems may control reimbursement for procedures performed using new products as well as procurement of these products. As an example, we were recently denied government-sponsored supplemental reimbursement in Germany for our eSVS Mesh for calendar year 2013. In addition, as economies of emerging markets develop, these countries may implement changes in their healthcare delivery and payment systems. Furthermore, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those underway in the United States are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our eSVS Mesh and these efforts are expected to continue. Market acceptance of our eSVS Mesh in a particular country may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in that country. In the event that our customers are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement for our eSVS Mesh in international markets in which we are seeking to sell our eSVS Mesh, market acceptance of our eSVS Mesh would be adversely affected. In the United States, our eSVS Mesh would be purchased primarily by medical institutions, which would then bill various third-party payors, such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS") which administers the Medicare program, and other government programs and private 34 Table of Contents insurance plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The process involved in applying for coverage and incremental reimbursement from CMS is lengthy and expensive. Even if our eSVS Mesh receives FDA and other regulatory approval, it may not be granted coverage and reimbursement in the foreseeable future, if at all. Moreover, many private payors look to CMS in setting their reimbursement policies and amounts. If CMS or other agencies limit coverage or decrease or limit reimbursement payments for doctors and hospitals, this may affect coverage and reimbursement determinations by many private payors. CMS may not provide coverage and reimbursement for our eSVS Mesh. If a medical device does not receive incremental reimbursement from CMS, then a medical institution would have to absorb the cost of our eSVS Mesh as part of the cost of the procedure in which the products are used. Acute care hospitals are now generally reimbursed by CMS for inpatient operating costs under a Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system. Under the Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system, acute care hospitals receive a fixed payment amount for each covered hospitalized patient based upon the Diagnosis-Related Group, or DRG, to which the inpatient stay is assigned, regardless of the actual cost of the services provided. At this time, we do not know the extent to which medical institutions would consider insurers' payment levels adequate to cover the cost of our eSVS Mesh. Failure by hospitals and physicians to receive an amount that they consider to be adequate reimbursement for procedures in which our eSVS Mesh is used could deter them from purchasing our eSVS Mesh and limit our revenue growth. In addition, pre-determined DRG payments may decline over time, which could deter medical institutions from purchasing our eSVS Mesh. If medical institutions are unable to justify the costs of our eSVS Mesh, they may refuse to purchase it, which would significantly harm our business. We may not be able to attract and retain the technical, regulatory, and sales personnel necessary for our success, which may divert management's attention and negatively impact our operations. We are highly dependent on our senior management, specifically Manny Villafaña, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of services of this individual would impair our ability to commercialize our eSVS Mesh and develop new products and would harm our business. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our senior management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel, as well as clinical and regulatory specialists, engineers and sales personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining senior executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Each of our senior officers may terminate his employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our employees. If we lose the services of any key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We will need to increase the size of our organization and we may experience difficulties managing growth. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. We expect to expand our sales support and marketing staff, and administrative and financial resources to meet anticipated growth in demand for our eSVS Mesh. We may face difficulties in recruiting, training, managing and retaining an adequate number of qualified personnel to support this growth. Expansion in personnel may mean that less experienced people could be providing clinical and sales and marketing support for our eSVS Mesh, and managing our administrative and financial functions, which could result in unanticipated costs and disruptions to our operations. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our financial results will suffer. 35 Table of Contents We anticipate future losses and may require additional financing, and our failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may require future financing in order to satisfy our capital requirements. In particular, we may require additional capital in order to continue to conduct the research and development and obtain regulatory clearances and approvals necessary to bring any future products to market and to establish effective marketing and sales capabilities for existing or future products. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may terminate or delay the development of our eSVS Mesh, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize our eSVS Mesh. If we terminate the commercialization of our eSVS Mesh, Medtronic may cause the core intellectual property and patent rights related to our eSVS Mesh to revert to Medtronic. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •our ability to demonstrate safety and effectiveness of our eSVS Mesh; •the selling price of our eSVS Mesh to distributors and the price that distributors charge hospitals; •the rate of progress in establishing reimbursement arrangements with third-party payors; •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •the cost and delays in product development that may result from changes in regulatory oversight applicable to our eSVS Mesh; •the costs involved in filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing or defending patent claims; •the cost of expanding our commercial operations, including our selling and marketing efforts; •our ability to establish and maintain effective relationships with independent distributors; •the rate at which physicians adopt our eSVS Mesh for use in CABG surgery; and •the progress of preclinical and clinical trials required to support our applications for regulatory approvals, including our human clinical trials in the United States. Becoming a public company has caused us to incur increased costs, places additional demands on our management and diverts management's attention from our core business. The obligations of being a public company, including substantial public reporting and auditing obligations, require significant additional expenditures, place additional demands on our management and divert management's time and attention away from our core business. These additional obligations may require us to hire additional personnel in order to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Capital Market. We are required to report on our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management may not be able to effectively and timely implement controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that are now applicable to us as a public company. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately or maintain internal controls adequate to meet the demands that are placed upon us as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and our business and stock price may suffer. The costs of being a public company, as well as diversion of management's time and attention, may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our competitive position is contingent upon the protection of our intellectual property. As of March 1, 2013, we had nine issued patents covering the eSVS Mesh: five issued in the United States and one each issued in Japan, Europe, Canada and South Africa. The European patent has been validated and is enforceable in eight European countries. In addition, we have three patent applications pending in the United States, and eight patent applications pending in countries outside the U.S. covering various aspects of our eSVS Mesh. Any patents we have or obtain in the future might be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. If any challenges are successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors or former or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized use and disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors' products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. Our commercial success, if any, will be significantly harmed if we infringe the patent rights of third parties or if we breach any agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technology or business. The medical device industry is characterized by frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Many medical device companies with substantially greater resources than us have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. We may become involved in litigation, interference proceedings, oppositions, reexamination, protest or other potentially adverse intellectual property proceedings as a result of alleged infringement by us of the rights of others or as a result of priority of invention disputes with third parties. Third parties may also challenge the validity of any of our issued patents. Similarly, we may initiate proceedings to enforce our patent rights and prevent others from infringing our intellectual property rights. In any of these circumstances, we might have to spend significant amounts of money, time and effort defending our position and we may not be successful. In addition, any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights or proprietary determinations, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, lengthy governmental proceedings, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements that are not advantageous to us. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. Because we operate in the highly technical field of medical technology development, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with all of our employees, consultants and corporate partners to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties any confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party's relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less 37 Table of Contents willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. Claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others could prohibit us from protecting our rights to, or use and commercialization of, our eSVS Mesh, which could harm our business. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become a party to patent infringement claims and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. Additionally, we may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. We are aware of patents issued to third parties that contain subject matter related to our technology. These or other third parties may assert that our eSVS Mesh infringes the claims in their patents or seek to expand their patent claims to cover aspects of our eSVS Mesh. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses. In addition, if we are found to willfully infringe third-party patents, we could be required to pay treble damages in addition to other penalties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not obtain necessary licenses, we may be required to redesign our eSVS Mesh to avoid infringement, and it may not be possible to do so effectively. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our resources, divert management's attention from our business and harm our reputation and prevent us from commercializing our eSVS Mesh or any other product we may develop, which would have a significant adverse impact on our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends upon compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the medical device industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their 38 Table of Contents former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If the core intellectual property relating to our eSVS Mesh reverts to Medtronic, our business will be adversely affected. The core intellectual property relating to our eSVS Mesh, which constitutes most of our issued patents and our pending patent applications, was sold to us by Medtronic pursuant to an Assignment and License Agreement dated October 9, 2007. If we become insolvent, make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, go into liquidation or receivership or otherwise lose legal control of our business, all technology sold to us pursuant to our agreement with Medtronic, including the core intellectual property and patent rights related to our eSVS Mesh, may revert to Medtronic, upon notice by Medtronic. In addition, if we determine to cease commercializing our eSVS Mesh, Medtronic may cause the core intellectual property and patent rights related to our eSVS Mesh to revert to Medtronic. A dispute over the circumstances under which the core intellectual property rights revert to Medtronic could be expensive and time consuming, and any reversion of these rights to Medtronic would adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval and Other Government Regulations We will be subject to government regulation, and we may not receive approval for our eSVS Mesh in the United States on a timely basis, if at all. Our eSVS Mesh, product development activities and manufacturing processes are, and will continue to be, subject to extensive and rigorous scrutiny and regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies in foreign countries. In the United States, the FDA regulates the introduction of medical devices, as well as manufacturing, labeling and record keeping procedures for such products. The process of obtaining marketing clearance or approval for new medical products from the FDA is costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such approval will be granted for our eSVS Mesh on a timely basis, if at all, or that the FDA review will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to commercialize our eSVS Mesh. Even if regulatory clearance or approval to market a product is obtained from the FDA, this clearance or approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses of the product. Marketing clearance or approval can also be withdrawn by the FDA due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial clearance. The FDA will require us to file a Pre-Market Approval, or PMA, application with regard to our eSVS Mesh, and there is no assurance whatsoever that approval will be obtained. Even if approval is obtained, the process of obtaining a PMA is expensive, uncertain and lengthy, frequently requiring several years to complete. Changing FDA policies and requirements for PMA products may add additional uncertainty. Significant delay or failure to obtain FDA approval to market our eSVS Mesh would harm our business. The FDA may not approve our investigational device exemption application for our eSVS Mesh, which would prevent us from conducting our clinical trials in the United States, and even if the FDA does grant such approval, our clinical trials may be more costly and burdensome than we currently anticipate, which would limit or delay our ability to complete clinical trials and ultimately market our eSVS Mesh in the United States. If the FDA approves an IDE application to conduct a pivotal trial, the clinical study we conduct may have unanticipated complications and delays and may be more costly than we currently anticipate. The FDA may approve our IDE application with conditions relating to the scope or design of our 39 Table of Contents clinical trials for which we have not planned. These conditions may require us to collect additional data, enroll more patients, spend more time and expend more resources than we currently anticipate, and these conditions may make a clinical trial in the United States more costly and time consuming than we currently plan. Any unanticipated costs and length of U.S. clinical trials would delay our ability to market our eSVS Mesh in the United States, which would harm our business. If the FDA does not approve our IDE application, we would be unable to conduct a pivotal trial of our eSVS Mesh in the United States. If we are unable to conduct a pivotal trial in the United States, we would not be able to submit a PMA application and we would be unable to market our eSVS Mesh in the United States, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Even if our eSVS Mesh is approved by regulatory authorities, if we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our eSVS Mesh, it could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of our eSVS Mesh is granted in the United States, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or effectiveness of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our eSVS Mesh, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturer or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We will be highly dependent on third-party institutions to conduct our clinical testing, and the results of such testing may delay or prevent regulatory approval of our eSVS Mesh. We rely on clinical investigators and clinical trial sites to enroll patients in our clinical trials and other third parties to manage our trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. However, we are not able to control the amount and timing of resources that clinical trial sites devote to our clinical trials. If these clinical investigators and clinical trial sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials or fail to ensure compliance by patients with clinical protocols, we will be unable to complete our planned trials, which could prevent us from obtaining regulatory approvals for our eSVS Mesh. Our agreements with clinical investigators and clinical trial sites for clinical testing place substantial responsibilities on these parties and, if these parties fail to perform as expected, our planned trials could be delayed or terminated. If these clinical investigators, clinical trial sites, or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, the FDA's good clinical practice regulations or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our eSVS Mesh. In addition, the data obtained from human clinical testing is subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and delays or rejection may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy for device approval during the period of development. 40 Table of Contents Our facilities will be subject to inspection by the FDA and international authorities, and we could face penalties if we are found to be non-compliant with the regulations of the FDA or international authorities. The FDA and various other authorities will inspect our facilities from time to time to determine whether we are in compliance with regulations relating to medical device manufacturing, including regulations concerning design, manufacturing, testing, quality control, product labeling, distribution, promotion, and record keeping practices. A determination that we are in material violation of such regulations could lead to the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls, product seizures or, in extreme cases, criminal sanctions. Even if regulatory approvals to market a product are obtained from the FDA, such approvals may contain limitations on the indicated uses of our eSVS Mesh. The FDA could also limit or prevent the manufacture or distribution of our eSVS Mesh and has the power to require the recall of products. FDA regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and there can be no assurance that the future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies with possible retroactive effect will not adversely affect us. Our promotional and marketing activities will be subject to regulation by the FDA and international authorities, and we could face severe penalties if we are found to be promoting our eSVS Mesh for an unapproved use. If the FDA or international authorities determine that our promotional materials or activities constitute promotion of our eSVS Mesh for an unapproved use, it could demand that we cease the use of or modify our promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional or other materials to constitute promotion of our eSVS Mesh for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Our success will also be dependent on complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and our inability to do so could result in sales of our eSVS Mesh being restricted internationally. Our revenues will initially be dependent upon sales of our eSVS Mesh outside the United States. Foreign regulatory bodies have established varying regulations governing product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. We will rely heavily upon independent foreign distributors to comply with such foreign regulatory requirements. Our inability or failure, or the inability or failure of such foreign distributors, to comply with varying foreign regulation or the imposition of new regulations could restrict the sale of our eSVS Mesh internationally and thereby harm our business. Legislation may negatively affect coverage and reimbursement levels for our eSVS Mesh. Even if third-party payors provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our eSVS Mesh, adverse changes in third-party payors' general policies toward reimbursement could preclude market acceptance for our eSVS Mesh and harm our potential sales and revenue growth, which in turn would harm our business. Recently, healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the United States and we expect that there will continue to be legislative proposals for governmental controls over healthcare in the United States and other countries. Some third-party payors also require pre-approval of coverage or companies to demonstrate the superiority of their product before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use such devices or procedures. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States and other countries and legislation intended to reduce the cost of government insurance programs will significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, and could result in lower or no reimbursement for our eSVS Mesh. 41 Table of Contents It is uncertain whether our eSVS Mesh will be viewed as sufficiently cost-effective to warrant adequate coverage and reimbursement levels. Our operations involve hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage, disposal and human exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. We currently generate small quantities of waste alcohol and acids, classifying us as a Very Small Quantity Generator with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, which requires us to comply with county and state registration requirements. We expect that compliance costs will be less than $5,000 for 2013. However, environmental laws could become more stringent over time, and we may increase the use of hazardous materials in our operations in the future, which could impose greater compliance costs on us and increase the risks and penalties associated with violations, any of which could harm our business. Compliance with future environmental and safety laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities, impair our research, development or production efforts, or require us to incur other significant expenses. We could incur costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws or regulations will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. U.S. healthcare reform legislation includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As the 2010 U.S. healthcare law continues to be phased in, we believe the law may have an impact on various aspects of our business operations. The law's Medicare payment reforms, such as accountable care organizations and bundled payments, may provide incentives for healthcare providers to reduce spending on our eSVS Mesh and reduce utilization of hospital procedures that use our eSVS Mesh if and when our eSVS Mesh receives FDA approval. Accordingly, while it is still too early to fully understand and predict the ultimate impact of the law on our business, ongoing implementation of this legislation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Prior to our initial public offering, there had not been a public market for our common stock and our stock price may be volatile and decrease significantly in the future. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2011, there had not been a public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investors' interests will lead to an active trading market for our common stock or whether the market price of our common stock will be volatile in the future. If an active trading market does not develop or is not sustained, investors may have difficulty selling any of our common stock. In addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this section, the following factors, many of which are outside of our control, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly in the future: •inconclusive or failed clinical trial outcomes of our eSVS Mesh; •failure to achieve market acceptance for our eSVS Mesh; •inability to manufacture our eSVS Mesh in adequate quantities or to commercial standards; •departure of key personnel; •inability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel to support our growth; 42 Table of Contents •variations in our quarterly operating results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •announcements by our competitors of significant technological developments; •changes in governmental regulations and standards; •litigation related to patent infringement and product liability claims; •changes to financial estimates by equity research analysts; •sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; •decreases in market valuations of similar companies; and •fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes. Each of these factors, among others, could cause the market price of our stock to decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock markets have been extremely volatile. Securities class action litigation is often initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company's securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we would incur substantial costs and our management's attention would be diverted from our operations. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable research or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. Equity research analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If equity research analysts do provide research coverage of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline if one or more of these analysts downgrade our common stock or if they issue other unfavorable commentary about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of our common stock by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline and cause you to lose part or all of your investment. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of our common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. We may file registration statements with the SEC covering shares available for future issuance under our stock incentive plan or other shares sold by us or our stockholders. The market price of shares of our common stock may decrease significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse and our stockholders, warrant holders and option holders are able to sell shares of our common stock into the market. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and our ability to grow our business in the future. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Cash and Cash Equivalents" below for more information. 43 Table of Contents If we fail to satisfy applicable listing standards, including maintenance of a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Nasdaq Capital Market imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards including a minimum bid price per share. On February 6, 2013, we received a notification letter from the Listing Qualifications Staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") notifying us that we are not in compliance with the Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (the "Bid Price Rule") because the closing bid price per share of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days prior to the notification letter. On March 14, 2013, we received a notification letter from the NASDAQ indicating that we had regained compliance with the Bid Price Rule because our common stock had maintained a closing bid price of $1.00 per share or more for 10 consecutive trading days. However, there are no assurances that our closing bid price will maintain compliance with the Bid Price Rule and our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock were delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, the delisting could lead to a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock, the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders have substantial control over us and could limit stockholders' ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of March 1, 2013, our directors and executive officers and their affiliated entities beneficially own 20.7% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Kips Bay Investments, LLC beneficially owns 25.3% and Mr. Villafaña, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 19.6% of our outstanding common stock, and together are able to control or influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. Our directors, executive officers, significant stockholders and affiliated entities, if acting together, are able to control or influence significantly all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may have interests that differ from other stockholders, and they may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and that may be adverse to the interests of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, and may affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership of our common stock may also have the effect of influencing the completion of a change in control that may not necessarily be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and our certificate of incorporation allows us to authorize and issue preferred stock with rights and preferences superior to our common stock without stockholder approval. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: •set limitations on the removal of directors; •limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; •do not permit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which would otherwise permit less than a majority of stockholders to elect directors; 44 Table of Contents •prohibit stockholder action by written consent unless unanimous, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and •provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally limits our ability to engage in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive stockholders of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. We do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock and stockholders should not expect to receive dividends on their common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Therefore, our stockholders should not expect to receive dividend income from shares of our common stock. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our stockholders or restrict our operations. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, stockholders' ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our product development and commercialization goals and harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 