ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to our Business and Industry We have a history of cumulative losses and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses in each of the last five years, including a net loss of $50.8 million in 2011. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $104.7 million. As we continue to invest in infrastructure, development of our solutions and sales and marketing, our operating expenses will continue to increase. Additionally, to accommodate future growth, we are in the process of transitioning our customer data centers from a third-party service provider to a co-located facility managed by our internal network operations team. This transition has required and will continue to require significant up front capital expenditures and these costs and expenses will be incurred before we realize any associated incremental billings or revenues. As a result, our losses in future periods may be significantly greater than the losses we would incur if we developed our business more slowly. In addition, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that they may not result in increases in our revenues or billings or provide the gross margin improvements we anticipated. Although we have experienced revenue growth in recent periods, you should not consider our recent revenue growth or growth rates as indicative of our future performance. We do not expect to be profitable on a GAAP basis in the foreseeable future and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results. Although we were incorporated in 2001, our current platform, the Jive Engage Platform, was not introduced until 2007 and, at that time, we began offering our platform on a subscription basis for internal and external communities. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to forecast our future operating results is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We have encountered and will encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing 13 Table of Contents companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described in this report. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer. Our future growth is, in large part, dependent upon the widespread adoption of social business software by enterprises and it is difficult to forecast the rate at which this will happen. Social business software for enterprises is at an early stage of technological and market development and the extent to which social business software will become widely adopted remains uncertain. It is difficult to predict customer adoption rates, customer demand for our platform, the future growth rate and size of this market or the entry of competitive solutions. Any expansion of the social business software market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with social business software. If social business software does not achieve widespread adoption, or there is a reduction in demand for social business software caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, it could result in lower billings, reduced renewal rates and decreased revenue and our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and could adversely affect our revenues and billings. In particular, if our customers are acquired by entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our solutions, or that have more favorable contract terms and choose to discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our platform, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The market for social business software is in its early stages of development and intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business would be harmed. The market for social business software is relatively new, highly competitive and rapidly evolving with new competitors entering the market. We expect the competitive landscape to intensify in the future as a result of regularly evolving customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We currently compete with large well-established multi-solution enterprise software vendors, stand-alone enterprise software application providers, and smaller software application vendors. Our primary competition currently comes from large well-established enterprise software vendors such as Microsoft Corporation and IBM Corporation, both of which are significantly larger than we are, have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, much longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and are able to provide comprehensive business solutions that are broader in scope than the solution we offer. These well established vendors may have preexisting relationships with our existing and potential customers and to the extent our solutions are not viewed as being superior in features, function and integration or priced competitively to existing solutions, we might have difficulty displacing them. We also compete with stand-alone enterprise software applications that have begun adding social features to their existing offerings, including salesforce.com, inc. Some of these companies have large installed bases of active customers that may prefer to implement social business software solutions that are provided by an existing provider of customer management software, and these companies may be able to offer discounts and other pricing incentives that make their solutions more attractive. In addition, large social and professional networking providers with greater name recognition, financial resources and other resources may add social business applications to their existing applications, resulting in increased competition. Several early stage private social business software companies have obtained significant financing, which could enable these competitors to offer lower pricing, execute deeper and broader marketing programs, expand their product offerings and functionality and significantly increase the size of their sales force; all of which could adversely affect our billings, revenues, and margins. Some potential customers, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal solutions. In addition, some of our competitors offer their solutions at a lower price or at no cost, which has resulted in pricing pressures and increased competition. If we are unable to price our solutions appropriately, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, lower margins, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales and billings, losses or the failure of our platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. Current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and as a result of such acquisitions, might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their solutions, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their offerings more quickly than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively for a share of our market, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We cannot accurately predict new subscription, subscription renewal or upsell rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenues and operating results. In order for us to improve our operating results and continue to grow our business, it is important that we continually attract new customers and that existing customers renew their subscriptions with us when their existing contract term expires. Our existing customers have no contractual obligation to renew their subscriptions after the initial subscription period and we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, their satisfaction with our platform and our customer support, the level of usage of our platform within their enterprise, the frequency and severity of outages, our product uptime or latency, the pricing of our, or competing, software or professional services, the effects of global economic conditions, and reductions in spending levels or changes in our customers’ strategies regarding social collaboration tools. If our customers renew their subscriptions, they may renew for fewer users or page views, for shorter contract lengths, or on other terms that are less economically beneficial to us. If customers enter into shorter initial subscription periods, the risk of customers not renewing their subscriptions with us would increase and our billings may be adversely impacted. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer renewals, so we may not accurately predict future renewal trends. We cannot assure you that our customers will renew their subscriptions, and if our customers do not renew their agreements or renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our billings may be adversely impacted. To the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we could incur increased losses because costs associated with generating customer agreements and performing services are generally incurred up front, while revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. This risk is particularly applicable for those customers who choose to implement our platform in the public cloud. If new customers sign agreements with short initial subscription periods and do not renew their subscriptions, our operating results could be negatively impacted due to the up-front expenses associated with our sales and implementation efforts. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our customers make additional significant purchases of our functionality and offerings, including additional modules, users or page views, communities or professional services. If our customers do not purchase additional functionality or offerings, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected. Additionally, increasing incremental sales to our current customer base requires increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. We also invest various resources targeted at expanding the utilization rates of our platform. There can be no assurance that our efforts would result in increased sales to existing customers, or upsells, and additional revenue. If our efforts to upsell to our customers are not successful, our business would suffer. 15 Table of Contents Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate due to a number of factors, and the value of our stock could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results may be caused by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • the renewal rates for our platform; • upsell rates for our solutions and services; • changes in deferred revenue balances due to changes in the average duration of subscriptions, rate of renewals and the rate of new business growth; • changes in the mix of the average term length and payment terms; • order sizes in any given quarter; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business; • changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a response to competitive or other factors; • the cost and timing associated with, and management effort for, the introduction of new features to our platform; • the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; • the length of the sales cycle for our platform; • changes in our go-to-market strategy; • the success of our international expansion strategy; • new solution introductions by our competitors; • our success in selling our platform to large enterprises; • general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions or a larger deployment, or hinder or delay a prospective customer’s purchasing decision, or reduce the value of new subscriptions, or affect renewal rates; • timing of additional investments in the development of our platform or deployment of our services; • disruptions in our hosting services or our inability to meet service level agreements and any resulting refunds to customers; • security breaches and potential financial penalties to customers and government entities; • purchases of new equipment and bandwidth in connection with planned data center expansion; • regulatory compliance costs; • the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; • the impact on services margins as a result of the use of third party contractors to fulfill demand; • costs associated with acquisitions of companies and technologies; • potential goodwill impairment charges related to prior acquisitions; • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments; • the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and • the timing of stock awards to employees. Additionally, our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new billings and renewals. This pattern may be amplified over time if the number of customers with renewal dates occurring in the fourth quarter continues to increase. Furthermore, our quarterly sales cycles are frequently weighted toward the end of the quarter, with an increased volume of sales in the last few weeks of each quarter, which may impact our revenue and billings significantly. We may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and the market price for our common stock could decline. If one or more of the securities analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, the market price for our common stock could decline. Additionally, our stock price may be based on expectations, estimates or forecasts of our future performance that may be unrealistic or may not be achieved. Further, our stock price may be affected by financial media, including press reports and blogs. Due to our evolving business model, the rapid pace of technological change, the unpredictability of the emerging market in which we participate and potential fluctuations in future general economic and financial market conditions, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of growth. We plan our expense levels and investments on estimates of future revenue and future anticipated rate of growth. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if the addition of new customers, the upsell rate for existing customers or the price for which we are able to sell our platform falls short of our expectations. As a result, we expect that our billings, revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly and comparisons of our billings, revenues, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. 16 Table of Contents We believe that our quarterly operating results, including the levels of our revenues and billings, may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of future performance. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, particularly with respect to large enterprises, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some of the more complex transactions, which could harm our business and operating results. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use, technical capabilities, security and benefits of our platform. Customers often undertake a prolonged product-evaluation process which frequently involves not only our solutions but also those of our competitors. As we continue to target our sales efforts at large enterprise customers, we will face greater costs, long sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to subscribe to our platform may be an enterprise-wide decision and, if so, may require us to provide even greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our platform. In addition, prospective enterprise customers may require customized features and functions unique to their business process and may require acceptance testing related to those unique features. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, increasing costs and time required to complete sales and diverting our own sales and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while potentially requiring us to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the acceptance requirements have been met. We rely on a third-party service provider to host some of our solutions and any interruptions or delays in services from this third party could impair the delivery of our products and harm our business. We currently outsource our hosting services to SunGard Availability Services LP, or SunGard. These services are provided by three of SunGard’s data centers worldwide. We do not control the operation of SunGard’s facilities and therefore must rely on SunGard to ensure that our technology and customer data is adequately protected. SunGard’s facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to employee negligence, break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of any of these disasters, a decision by SunGard to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service which would materially impact our customers’ use of our offerings and may result in financial penalties. Additionally, we are in the process of transitioning a portion of our hosting services to a Jive managed hosting facility. This facility is subject to the risks as those existing in our SunGard facilities as well as other risks inherent in the fact that we are now managing the infrastructure that hosts our customer communities. These risks include our failure to properly plan for our infrastructure capacity requirements and our inability obtain and maintain the technologies and personnel necessary to cause the hosting services to operate efficiently and in accordance with our contractual commitments including those pertaining to uptime and security. Furthermore, the availability of our platform could be interrupted by a number of additional factors outside of our hosting facilities, including our customers’ inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems due to human or other error, security breaches or ability of the infrastructure to handle spikes in customer usage. We may be required to issue credits or refunds or indemnify or otherwise be liable to customers or third parties for damages that may occur resulting from certain of these events. For example, in January 2011, we experienced a hosting outage, which impacted some of our customers for up to 14 hours. As a result of this outage, we provided service credits to certain customers. If we experience similar outages in the future, we may experience customer dissatisfaction and potential loss of confidence, which could harm our reputation and impact future revenues from these customers. 17 Table of Contents A rapid expansion of our business could cause our network or systems to fail. In the future, we may need to expand our hosting operations at a more rapid pace than we have in the past, spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment, upgrade our technology and infrastructure to handle increased customer demand and introduce new solutions. For example, if we secure a large customer or a group of customers which require significant amounts of bandwidth or storage to enable their community, we may need to increase bandwidth, storage, power or other elements of our hosting operations and our existing systems may not be able to scale in a manner satisfactory to our existing or prospective customers. In addition, our sales expansion strategies in Asia and Latin America may require us to set up or partner with hosting providers in those regions and we may have to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease new data centers and equipment. Any such expansion could be expensive and complex and result in inefficiencies or operational failures and could reduce our margins. Our planned transition from third-party hosted data centers for our public cloud customers to our own managed facilities is expensive and complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failure and increased risk. Our planned transition from data centers managed by a third-party service provider to a co-located facility managed by our internal network operations team is complex, could result in operational inefficiencies or operational failures and will require significant up front capital expenditures for equipment and infrastructure as well as increased personnel expense. We expect these investments will have a negative impact on margins in the near term. In this regard, we anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately $10.0 million during 2012 for purchases of network equipment, as well as for additional hosting services. If it takes longer than we expect to complete this transition, the negative impact on our operating results would likely exceed our initial expectations, particularly if the scope of the project grows and we deploy additional resources and hire additional personnel to complete the project. Additionally, to the extent that we are required to add data center capacity to accommodate customer demands for additional bandwidth or storage to enable their communities, we may need to significantly increase the bandwidth, storage, power or other elements of our hosting operations, and the costs associated with adjustments to our data center architecture could also negatively affect our margins and operating results. There is an increased risk that service interruptions may occur as a result of our data center transition or other unforeseen issues. Even after we transition our data centers, we will remain subject to the continued risks associated with data center operations, including security and privacy compliance, the maintenance of appropriate data security certifications, risks of disruptions or delays in services and other factors. Our failure to effectively manage these risks could damage our reputation and result in a financial liability or a loss of customers, which would harm our business and operating results. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our solutions and we may incur significant liabilities. Our hosting operations involve the storage and transmission of data and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. While we have security measures in place our systems and networks are subject to ongoing threats and therefore these security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including cyberattacks or other intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. This could result in one or more third parties obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information. Third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information. 18 Table of Contents Our hosting, support and professional services personnel sometimes must access customer communities to fulfill our contractual obligations to provide these services to our customers. This access may result in exposure to confidential customer data that is stored within our platform. If our personnel or our software systems were to permit unauthorized loss or access to this customer data, our reputation could be damaged and we could incur significant liability. Additionally, while our platform is not intended for the transmission or storage of sensitive health, personal and financial information and we contractually prohibit our customers from doing so, we do not monitor or review the content that our customers upload and store within their communities. Therefore, we have no direct control over the substance of the content within our hosted communities. If customers use our platform for the transmission or storage of sensitive health, personal or financial information and our security measures are breached our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability as many domestic and international laws place a higher burden of care on organizations that transmit and process this type of information. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers and increase engagement by existing customers, cause existing customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions, subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby harming our operating results. In addition, through the Jive Apps Market our customers may obtain third party applications which access the data stored within their community. Because we do not control the transmissions between our customers and these third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. Because our platform could be used to collect and store personal information of our customers’ employees or customers, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit sales of our platform. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States and in many other countries where we offer our solutions. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 and state breach notification laws. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply, including the Data Protection Directive established in the European Union and the Federal Data Protection Act recently passed in Germany. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the technological features of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our software, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our platform. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our platform particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage such growth and our future growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. We have experienced significant growth in recent periods. For example, we grew from 159 employees at December 31, 2009 to 430 at December 31, 2011. This growth has placed, and any future growth may place, a significant strain on our management and operational infrastructure, including our hosting operations. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage these changes effectively. We will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties. Any failure to effectively manage growth could adversely impact our business and reputation. Changes in laws and/or regulations related to the Internet or related to privacy and data security concerns or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may cause our business to suffer. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the transmission of certain types of content using the Internet. For example, the State of California has adopted legislation requiring operators of commercial websites that collect personal information from California residents to conspicuously post and comply with privacy policies that satisfy certain requirements. Several other U.S. states have adopted legislation requiring companies to protect the security of personal information that they collect from consumers over the Internet, and more states may adopt similar legislation in the future. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission has used its authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to bring actions against companies for failing to maintain adequate security for personal information collected from consumers over the Internet and for failing to comply with privacy-related representations made to Internet users. The U.S. Congress has at various times proposed federal legislation intended to protect the privacy of Internet users and the security of personal information collected from Internet users that would impose additional compliance burdens upon companies collecting personal information from Internet users, and the U.S. Congress may adopt such legislation in the future. The European Union also has adopted various directives regulating data privacy and security and the transmission of content using the Internet involving residents of the European Union, including those directives known as the Data Protection Directive, the E-Privacy Directive, and the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive, and may adopt similar directives in the future. Several other countries, including Canada and several Latin American countries, have constitutional protections for, or have adopted legislation protecting, individuals’ personal information. Additionally, some federal, state, or foreign governmental bodies have established laws which seek to censor the transmission of certain types of content over the Internet, such as the German Multimedia Law of 1997. Increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations, as well as any laws, regulations, or changes that may be adopted or implemented in the future, could limit the growth of the use of public cloud applications or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications such as our public cloud solutions and reduce the demand for our social business software platform. Additionally, due to the complexity and diversity of these laws, our customers often include contractual obligations which can impose significant risk of termination and financial penalties if we fail to comply. 20 Table of Contents If we are not able to develop and introduce enhancements and new features that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with technological developments, our business could be harmed. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry and legal standards. The introduction of new social business software solutions by our competitors, the market acceptance of solutions based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards could render our platform obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully, attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing social business software platform and to continually introduce or acquire new features that are in demand by the market we serve. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new platform or feature that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to anticipate or timely and successfully develop or acquire new offerings or features or enhance our existing platform to meet customer requirements, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. In the second quarter of 2011, we launched our Jive Apps Market. We have devoted significant resources to the development of this new offering and we plan to continue to invest in its growth and adoption. The success of the Jive Apps Market depends, in part, on the willingness of third-party developers to build applications that are complementary to our platform. The Jive Apps Market, as well as other future initiatives, may present new and difficult technology challenges and end-users may choose not to adopt our new solutions, which would harm our operating results. Additionally, the Jive Apps Market includes applications that are built by third-party application developers. This may subject us to additional risks, including the risk that such applications, in particular those developed by smaller, independent developers, cause harm to our reputation and subject us to liability due to, for example, quality issues, the lack of sufficient security within the application, infringement of third-party intellectual property and the introduction of viruses, any of which could harm our business. In addition, we are in the process of investing in the development of a cloud-based offering targeted at making it easier for departments within a larger organization to try our platform. The goal of this cloud-based offering is to make it easy for customers to get started using Jive, driving viral adoption. If this new offering is not successful we may not achieve the revenue growth we anticipated to offset the investments we have made and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our platform must integrate with a variety of operating systems, software applications and hardware that are developed by others and, if we are unable to devote the necessary resources to ensure that our solutions interoperate with such software and hardware, we may fail to increase, or we may lose, market share and we may experience a weakening demand for our platform. Our social business software platform must integrate with a variety of network, hardware and software platforms, including Microsoft Office, and we will need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our platform, result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business. If we are unable to respond in a timely manner to these changes in a cost-effective manner, our solutions may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be negatively impacted. In addition, an increasing number of individuals within the enterprise are utilizing devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and other handheld devices, to access the Internet and corporate resources and conduct business. If we cannot effectively make our platform available on these mobile devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a single software platform. We derive a substantial portion of our total revenues from sales of a single software platform, the Jive Engage Platform, and related modules. As such, any factor adversely affecting sales of this platform, including product release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, and economic and market conditions, could harm our business and operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with our implementation, customization or other professional services provided by us. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers and meet our customers’ business needs. If a customer is not satisfied with the type of solutions and professional services we deliver, we could incur additional costs to remedy the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customer’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional services from that customer. If we are not able to accurately estimate the cost of services requested by the customer, it might result in providing services on a discounted basis or free of charge until customer satisfaction is achieved. In addition, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers. Further, we have customer payment obligations not yet due that are attributable to software we have already delivered. These customer obligations are typically not cancelable, but will not yield the expected revenues and cash flow if the customer defaults and fails to pay amounts owed, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, large enterprises may request or require customized features and functions unique to their particular business processes. If prospective large customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer, then the market for our platform will be more limited and our business could suffer. In addition, supporting large enterprise customers could require us to devote significant development services and support personnel and strain our personnel resources and infrastructure. If we are unable to address the needs of these customers in a timely fashion or further develop and enhance our platform, these customers may not renew their subscriptions, seek to terminate their relationship, renew on less favorable terms, or fail to purchase additional features. If any of these were to occur, our revenues and billings may decline and we may not realize significantly improved operating results. We might experience significant errors or security flaws in our platform. Despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities, especially when initially introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our platform could affect the ability of our platform to work with other hardware or software products, impact functionality and delay the development or release of new solutions or new versions of solutions and adversely affect market acceptance of our platform. The detection and correction of any bugs or security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Some errors in our platform and related solutions may only be discovered after installation and use by customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered after commercial release or contained in custom implementations could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers or increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our platform has contained and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that could result in data unavailability, data security breaches, data loss or corruption or other harm to our customers. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our platform could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our solutions, result in unauthorized access to customer data or fraudulently individuals to provide their log-in credentials. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our platform could result in contractual liability, harm our reputation and lead some customers to cancel subscriptions, reduce or delay future purchases or use competitive solutions. Failure to adequately expand our direct sales force will impede our growth. We will need to continue to expand and optimize our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force, both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our platform require significant time, expense and attention. It can take nine to 12 months or longer before our sales representatives are fully trained and productive. Our business may be harmed if our efforts to expand and train our direct sales force do not generate a corresponding significant increase in billings and revenues. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of this investment or increase our billings and revenues or grow our business. 22 Table of Contents Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. Our future growth will depend on our ability to enter into successful strategic relationships with third parties. For example, we are investing resources in building our indirect sales channel by establishing relationships with third-parties to facilitate incremental sales, and to implement and customize our platform. In addition, we are also establishing relationships with other third-parties to develop integrations with compatible technology and content. These relationships may not result in additional customers or enable us to generate significant billings or revenues. Identifying partners, negotiating and documenting relationships with them require significant time and resources. Our agreements for these relationships are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit the other party from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues and billings could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. In particular, leveraging third party reseller and referral partner relationships is important to our strategy to expand our presence in the Latin America and Asia Pacific regions. If these relationships are not successful it could impede our growth in revenues and billings. Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our platform. We use open source software in our platform. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by the United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our platform. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our platform, to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering our platform in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could cause us to breach contracts, harm our reputation, result in customer losses or claims, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in this industry are often required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. As a result, our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties have claimed and may claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. In the future, we may be the subject of claims that our platform and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. As a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our solutions, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results. As most of our customer and partner agreements obligate us to provide indemnification in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our platform, or refund fees, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, requested to indemnify our customers and business partners. We expect that the occurrence of infringement claims is likely to grow as the market for social business software grows. Accordingly, our exposure to damages resulting from infringement claims could be increased and this could further exhaust our financial and management resources. 23 Table of Contents The outcome of any litigation, regardless of its merits, is inherently uncertain. Any intellectual property claim or lawsuit could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention from executing our business plan and require us to change our technology, change our business practices and/or pay monetary damages or enter into short- or long-term royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, in certain circumstances, such as those in which the opposing parties are large and well-funded companies, we may face a more expensive and protracted path to resolution of such claims or lawsuits. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We primarily rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions with our employees, customers, partners and others to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or we may be unable to secure intellectual property protection for all of our solutions. In particular, we have only recently begun to implement a strategy to seek patent protection for our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure these actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology, and our business and operating results might be harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights might entail significant expense and the diversion of management resources. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective protection of our intellectual property may not be available to us in every country in which our solutions are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, and could ultimately result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Because we generally recognize revenue from subscriptions for our platform ratably over the term of the agreement, near term changes in sales may not be reflected immediately in our operating results. We generally recognize revenue from customers ratably over the term of their agreements, which range from 12 to 36 months. As a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters or years. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter is not likely to be reflected immediately in our revenue results for that quarter. Such declines, however, would negatively affect our revenue in future periods and the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our total revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In some instances, our customers choose to pre-pay the entire term of their multi-year subscriptions up front. As a result, billings can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. 24 Table of Contents Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our sales to customers outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We sell our platform primarily through our direct sales organization, which is comprised of inside sales and field sales personnel and is located in a variety of geographic regions, including the U.S., South America and Europe. We also intend to expand into Asia in 2012. Sales outside of the U.S. represented approximately 21% and 20% of our total revenues for 2011 and 2010, respectively. As we continue to expand the sale of our social business software platform to customers located outside the U.S., our business will be increasingly susceptible to risks associated with international operations. However, we have a limited operating history outside the U.S., and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of diverse cultures, languages, customs, tax laws, legal systems, alternate dispute systems and regulatory systems. The risks and challenges associated with international expansion include: • continued localization of our platform, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • compliance with anti-bribery laws, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of our customers’ data across international borders; • ability to provide local hosting services; • different pricing environments, including invoicing and collecting in foreign currencies and associated foreign currency exposure; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; • different or lesser protection of our intellectual property rights; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, longer payment cycles and other collection difficulties; and • regional economic and political conditions. Additionally, a substantial majority of our international customers currently pay us in U.S. dollars and, as a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our platform more expensive for international customers, which could harm our business. In the future, an increasing number of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may negatively impact our business. If we are unable to successfully manage the challenges of international operations and expansion, our growth could be limited, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Throughout fiscal 2010 and 2011, we completed three acquisitions and may acquire or invest in other companies or technologies in the future, which could divert management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We have in the past acquired, and we may in the future acquire or invest in, businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits of these or any future acquisition. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses related to identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. 25 Table of Contents There are inherent risks in integrating and managing acquisitions. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to assimilate or integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs, which would be recognized as a current period expense; • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs; • the inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our platform and of maintaining quality standards consistent with our brand; • delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition; • the need to implement additional controls, procedures and policies; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • harm to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; • the inability to recognize acquired revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, and the loss of acquired deferred revenue; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash or the incurrence of debt to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. Also, contingent considerations related to acquisitions will be remeasured to fair value at each reporting period, with any changes in the value recorded as income or expense. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on the impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations in ways that may be hard to predict or defend against. Our overall performance depends in part on domestic and worldwide economic conditions, which may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or to our industry may adversely affect us over the course of time. The U.S. and other key international economies have been impacted by threatened sovereign defaults and ratings downgrades, falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, going concern threats to major multinational companies, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty. These conditions affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our social business software platform, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions, or affect renewal rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the economic recovery or any subsequent economic slowdown, worldwide, in the United States, or in our industry. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Our corporate headquarters are located in Palo Alto, California, a high portion of our technology and services personnel are located in our Portland, Oregon office and we are in the process of transitioning our data centers to a co-located facility located along the west coast of the United States. The west coast, and California in particular, are active earthquake zones. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our 26 Table of Contents website for our development, marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales activities. In the event of a major earthquake or catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber attack, war or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our corporate operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, contractual and financial liabilities, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could harm our future operating results. Although we back up customer data stored on our systems at least daily to a geographically distinct location, our data is not mirrored in real-time to this site. Thus, in the event of a physical disaster, or certain other failures of our computing infrastructure, customer data from very recent transactions may be permanently lost. Further, our full production infrastructure is not mirrored to a geographically distinct location and thus in the event of a disaster, production capacity may be impacted for an extended amount of time while the infrastructure is procured, rebuilt and data is restored. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited, and our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. The forecasts of market growth included in this document may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the markets in which we compete achieve the forecasted growth, we cannot assure you our business will grow at similar rates, if at all. Growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates which may not prove to be accurate. Forecasts relating to the expected growth in the social business software market and other markets may prove to be inaccurate. Even if these markets experience the forecasted growth, we may not grow our business at similar rates, or at all. Our growth is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, the forecasts of market growth included in this 10-K should not be taken as indicative of our future growth. There are limitations on the effectiveness of controls and the failure of our control systems may materially and adversely impact us. We do not expect that disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially and adversely impact us. 27 Table of Contents The intended operational and tax benefits of our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements depend on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and how we operate our business, and may be challenged by tax authorities. Our corporate structure and intercompany agreements with our foreign subsidiaries are intended to optimize our operating structure and our worldwide effective tax rate, including the manner in which we develop and use our intellectual property, manage our cash flow and the pricing of our intercompany transactions. Our foreign subsidiaries operate under cost plus transfer pricing agreements with us. These agreements provide for sales, support and development activities for our benefit. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing technology or our transfer pricing arrangements, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax objectives, which could increase our international tax exposure and harm our operating results. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of one or more key employees or groups could harm our business and prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers, which includes key leadership in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and the general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing development personnel because of the complexity of our platform and other solutions. Our personnel do not have employment arrangements that require these personnel to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees or groups could seriously harm our business. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our operations and growing customer base. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talent. In the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for software engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock declines, it may adversely affect our ability to retain highly skilled employees. In addition, since we expense all stock-based compensation, we may periodically change our stock compensation practices, which may include reducing the number of employees eligible for options or reducing the size of equity awards granted per employee. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical component to our success has been our corporate culture. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team. As we continue to grow and develop the infrastructure associated with being a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. 28 Table of Contents The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market on which our common stock trades and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We also expect that being a public company and these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, and qualified executive officers. We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We will be required, pursuant to the Exchange Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the first fiscal year beginning after the effective date of our initial public offering. As such, we are obligated to attest to the effectiveness of internal controls as of December 31, 2012. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on our management’s assessment of our internal controls. We are in the very early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to provide these reports. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to attest to management’s report on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline. 29 Table of Contents Risk Related to our Ownership of our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could subject us to litigation. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the market price of our common stock include: • variations in our billings, renewal rates, operating results, cash flow, loss per share and how these results compare to analyst expectations; • the net increase in the number of customers acquired, either independently or as compared with published expectations of analysts that cover us; • forward looking guidance on revenue and loss per share; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • disruptions in our public cloud service; • the economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry, and the industries of our customers; and • any other factors discussed herein. In addition, if the market for technology stocks, especially social media related stocks, or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price for our stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been subject of securities litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our president, our secretary, or a majority vote of our board of directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the issuance of 30 Table of Contents preferred stock and management of our business or our amended and restated bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquiror to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; • the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and • advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 