Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Applicable to Our Business: Nationwide economic weakness may adversely affect our business by reducing real estate values in our trade area and stressing the ability of our customers to repay their loans. Our trade area, like the rest of the United States, is currently experiencing weak economic conditions. In addition, the financial services industry is a major employer in our trade area. The financial services industry has been adversely affected by current economic and regulatory factors. As a result, many companies have experienced reduced revenues and have laid off employees. These factors have stressed the ability of both commercial and consumer customers to repay their loans, 10 and may result in higher levels of non-accrual loans. In addition, real estate values have declined in our trade area. Since the number of our loans secured by real estate represents a material segment of our overall loan portfolio, declines in the market value of real estate impact the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could lead to greater losses in the event of defaults on loans secured by real estate. Our recent growth has substantially increased our expenses and impacted our results of operations. As a strategy, we have focused on growth by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities, and we have grown rapidly since our incorporation. Our assets have grown from $179.8 million at December 31, 2006, to $930.0 million at December 31, 2012, representing a compound annual growth rate in excess of 30%. During that time, we have opened four new offices. Although we believe that our growth strategy will support our long term profitability and franchise value, the expense associated with our growth, including compensation expense for the employees needed to support this growth and leasehold and other expenses associated with our locations, has and may continue to negatively affect our results. In addition, in order for our most recently opened branches to contribute to our long term profitability, we will need to be successful in attracting and maintaining cost efficient deposits at these locations. In order to successfully manage our growth, we need to adopt and effectively implement policies, procedures and controls to maintain our credit quality and oversee our operations. We can give you no assurance that we will be successful in this strategy. Our growth-oriented business strategy could be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees. We may not be able to successfully manage our business as a result of the strain on our management and operations that may result from growth. Our ability to manage growth will depend upon our ability to continue to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and other systems, to manage multiple, concurrent customer relationships and to hire, train and manage our employees. We may need to raise additional capital to execute our growth oriented business strategy. In order to continue our historic rate of growth, we will be required to maintain our regulatory capital ratios at levels higher than the minimum ratios set by our regulators. In light of current economic conditions, our regulators have been seeking higher capital bases for insured depository institutions experiencing strong growth. In addition, the implementation of certain new regulatory requirements, such as the Basel III accord and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), may establish higher tangible capital requirements for financial institutions. These developments may require us to raise additional capital in the future. We can offer you no assurances that we will be able to raise capital in the future, or that the terms of any such capital will be beneficial to our existing security holders. In the event we are unable to raise capital in the future, we may not be able to continue our growth strategy. We have a significant concentration in commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans. Our loan portfolio is made up largely of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to a higher degree of credit risk of non-payment and loss than do residential mortgage loans because of several factors, including dependence on the successful operation of a business or a project for repayment, the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate, and loan terms with a balloon payment rather than full amortization over the loan term. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Underwriting and portfolio management activities cannot completely eliminate all risks related to these loans. Any 11 significant failure to pay on time by our customers or a significant default by our customers would materially and adversely affect us. At December 31, 2012, we had $549.2 million of commercial real estate loans, which represented 64.7% of our total loan portfolio. Our commercial real estate loans include loans secured by multi-family, owner occupied and non-owner occupied properties for commercial uses. In addition, we make both secured and unsecured commercial and industrial loans. At December 31, 2012, we had $147.5 million of commercial business loans, which represented 17.4% of our total loan portfolio. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial and industrial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and typically include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Loans secured by owner-occupied real estate and commercial and industrial loans are both reliant on the operating businesses to provide cash flow to meet debt service obligations, and as a result they are more susceptible to the general impact on the economic environment affecting those operating companies as well as the real estate. Although the economy in our market area generally, and the real estate market in particular, is improving slowly, we can give you no assurance that it will continue to grow or that the rate of growth will accelerate to historical levels. Many factors, including continuing European economic difficulties could reduce or halt growth in our local economy and real estate market. Accordingly, it may be more difficult for commercial real estate borrowers to repay their loans in a timely manner in the current economic climate, as commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans frequently depends on the successful development of their properties. The deterioration of one or a few of our commercial real estate loans could cause a material increase in our level of nonperforming loans, which would result in a loss of revenue from these loans and could result in an increase in the provision for loan losses and/or an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our net income. We also may incur losses on commercial real estate loans due to declines in occupancy rates and rental rates, which may decrease property values and may decrease the likelihood that a borrower may find permanent financing alternatives. Given the continued weaknesses in the commercial real estate market in general, there may be loans where the value of our collateral has been negatively impacted. The weakening of the commercial real estate market may increase the likelihood of default of these loans, which could negatively impact our loan portfolio’s performance and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, we could incur material losses. Any of these events could increase our costs, require management time and attention, and materially and adversely affect us. Federal banking agencies have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires financial institutions that exceed certain levels of commercial real estate lending compared with their total capital to maintain heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If there is any deterioration in our commercial real estate portfolio or if our regulators conclude that we have not implemented appropriate risk management practices, it could adversely affect our business, and could result in the requirement to maintain increased capital levels. Such capital may not be available at that time, and may result in our regulators requiring us to reduce our concentration in commercial real estate loans. 12 The nature of our commercial loan portfolio may expose us to increased lending risks. Given the significant growth in our loan portfolio, many of our commercial real estate loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated relatively recently. As of December 31, 2012, we had $549.2 million in commercial real estate loans outstanding. Approximately seventy-five percent (75%) of the loans, or $411.9 million, had been originated in the past three years. Our limited experience with these loans does not provide us with a significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our expectations, which could negatively affect our performance. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Bank lends to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to the Bank that could materially harm our operating results. The Bank targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact our market areas could cause the Bank to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory changes allowing the payment of interest on commercial accounts may negatively impact our core deposit strategy and our net interest income. Our current core deposit strategy includes continuing to increase our noninterest-bearing commercial accounts in order to lower our cost of funds. Recent changes effected by the Dodd-Frank Act, however, permit the payment of interest on such accounts, which was previously prohibited. If our competitors begin paying interest on commercial accounts, this may increase competition from other financial institutions for these deposits and negatively affect our ability to continue to increase commercial deposit accounts, may require us to consider paying interest on such accounts, or may otherwise require us to revise our core deposit strategy, any of which could increase our interest expense and therefore our cost of funds and, as a result, decrease our net interest income which would adversely impact our results of operations. The loss of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Frank Sorrentino III. Mr. Sorrentino has served as Chief Executive Officer of the Bank for five years. It was Mr. Sorrentino who originally conceived of the business idea of organizing ConnectOne Bank, and he spearheaded the efforts to organize the Bank in 2005. The loss of Mr. Sorrentino could have a material adverse effect on us, as he is central to virtually all aspects of our business operations and management. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Sorrentino. Our lending limit may restrict our growth. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. Based upon our current capital levels, the amount we may lend is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our lending limit from doing business with us. We accommodate larger loans by selling 13 participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but his strategy may not always be available. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the last four years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and to a lesser extent, market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which have contributed to increases in net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see “Risk Factors-Changes in interest rates may adversely affect or our earnings and financial condition.” Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate documents and in New Jersey corporate law may make it difficult and expensive to remove current management. Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate documents and in New Jersey law may render the removal of our existing board of directors and management more difficult. Consequently, it may be difficult and expensive for our stockholders to remove current management, even if current management is not performing adequately. Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, credit unions and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer a wider array of services or more favorable pricing alternatives, as well as lower origination and operating costs. This competition could reduce our net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that we originate and the interest rates we may charge on these loans. In attracting deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing 14 deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations which may increase our cost of funds. We also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over us in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Hurricanes and other weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. In addition, these weather events may result in a decline in value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since the formation of the Bank in 2005, and expect that we will continue to retain earnings to augment our capital base and finance future growth. Therefore, investors should not purchase shares of common stock with a view for a current return on their investment in the form of cash dividends. Risks Applicable to the Banking Industry Generally: The financial services industry is undergoing a period of great volatility and disruption. Beginning in mid-2007, there has been significant turmoil and volatility in global financial markets. Nationally, economic factors including inflation, recession, a rise in unemployment, a weakened US dollar, dislocation and volatility in the credit markets, and rising consumer costs persist. Recent market uncertainty regarding the financial sector has increased. In addition to the impact on the economy generally, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve, or in valuations in the debt or equity markets or disruptions in the liquidity or other functioning of financial markets, all of which have been seen recently, could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways: • Net interest income, the difference between interest earned on our interest earning assets and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities, represents a significant portion of our earnings. Both increases and decreases in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. We expect that we will continue to realize income from the spread between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. The net interest spread is affected by the differences between the maturity and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-earning assets may not reprice as slowly or rapidly as our interest-bearing liabilities. • The market value of our securities portfolio may decline and result in other than temporary impairment charges. The value of securities in our portfolio is affected by factors that impact the U.S. securities market in general as well as specific financial sector factors and entities. Recent uncertainty in the market regarding the financial sector has negatively impacted the value of securities within our portfolio. Further declines in these sectors may result in future other than temporary impairment charges. • Asset quality may deteriorate as borrowers become unable to repay their loans. 15 Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and conditions. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including the impact of national and regional economic conditions on the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. If our judgment proves to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Further, state and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.56% and as a percentage of total non-accrual loans was 166.8%. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover known and probable incurred losses included in the portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowed funds. The level of net interest income is primarily a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest- bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”), and market interest rates. A sustained increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings if our cost of funds increases more rapidly than our yield on our earning assets, and compresses our net interest margin. In addition, the economic value of portfolio equity would decline if interest rates increase. For example, we estimate that as of December 31, 2012, a 200 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in our economic value of portfolio equity declining by approximately $22.2 million or 19.4%. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis.” Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience gaps in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or re-price more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or re-price more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce our net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. We also attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. The banking business is subject to significant government regulations. We are subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and may require substantial modifications to our operations or 16 may cause us to incur substantial additional compliance costs. In addition, future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the commercial banking industry and our operations. Such governing laws can be anticipated to continue to be the subject of future modification. Our management cannot predict what effect any such future modifications will have on our operations. In addition, the primary focus of Federal and state banking regulation is the protection of depositors and not the shareholders of the regulated institutions. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act may result in substantial new compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Generally, the Dodd-Frank Act is effective the day after it was signed into law, but different effective dates apply to specific sections of the law, many of which will not become effective until various Federal regulatory agencies have promulgated rules implementing the statutory provisions. Uncertainty remains as to the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act, which could have a material adverse impact either on the financial services industry as a whole, or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The following aspects of the financial reform and consumer protection act are related to the operations of the Bank: • A new independent consumer financial protection bureau was established within the Federal Reserve, empowered to exercise broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to both new and existing consumer financial protection laws. However, smaller financial institutions, like the Bank, are subject to the supervision and enforcement of their primary federal banking regulator with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws. • The act also imposes new obligations on originators of residential mortgage loans, such as the Bank. Among other things, originators must make a reasonable and good faith determination based on documented information that a borrower has a reasonable ability to repay a particular mortgage loan over the long term. If the originator cannot meet this standard, the loan may be unenforceable in foreclosure proceedings. The act contains an exception from this ability to repay rule for “qualified mortgages”, which are deemed to satisfy the rule, but does not define the term, and left authority to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) to adopt a definition. A rule issued by the CFPB in January 2013, and effective January 10, 2014, sets forth specific underwriting criteria for a loan to qualify as a Qualified Mortgage Loan. The criteria generally exclude loans that are interest- only, have excessive upfront points or fees, have negative amortization features or balloon payments, or have terms in excess of 30 years. The underwriting criteria also impose a maximum debt to income ratio of 43%. If a loan meets these criteria and is not a “higher priced loan” as defined in Federal Reserve regulations, the CFPB rule establishes a safe harbor preventing a consumer from asserting as a defense to foreclosure the failure of the originator to establish the consumer’s ability to repay. However, this defense will be available to a consumer for all other residential mortgage loans. Although the majority of residential mortgages historically originated by the Bank would qualify as Qualified Mortgage Loans, the Bank has also made, and may continue to make in the future, residential mortgage loans that will not qualify as Qualified Mortgage Loans. These loans may expose the Bank to greater losses, loan repurchase obligations, or litigation related expenses and delays in taking title to collateral real estate, if these loans do not perform and borrowers challenge whether Sullivan satisfied the ability to repay rule on originating the loan. • Tier 1 capital treatment for “hybrid” capital items like trust preferred securities is eliminated subject to various grandfathering and transition rules. • The prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits was repealed, effective July 21, 2011. • Deposit insurance is permanently increased to $250,000. • The deposit insurance assessment base calculation now equals the depository institution’s total assets minus the sum of its average tangible equity during the assessment period. 17 • The minimum reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund increased to 1.35 percent of estimated annual insured deposits or assessment base; however, the FDIC is directed to “offset the effect” of the increased reserve ratio for insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion. The following aspects of the financial reform and consumer protection act are related to the operations of the Company: • The Federal Deposit Insurance Act was amended to direct federal regulators to require depository institution holding companies to serve as a source of strength for their depository institution subsidiaries. • The Securities and Exchange Commission is authorized to adopt rules requiring public companies to make their proxy materials available to shareholders for nomination of their own candidates for election to the board of directors. • Public companies (other than emerging growth companies like the Company) are now required to provide their shareholders with a non-binding vote: (i) at least once every three years on the compensation paid to executive officers, and (ii) at least once every six years on whether they should have a “say on pay” vote every one, two or three years. • A separate, non-binding shareholder vote is now required regarding golden parachutes for named executive officers when a shareholder vote takes place on mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or other transactions that would trigger the parachute payments. • Securities exchanges are now required to prohibit brokers from using their own discretion to vote shares not beneficially owned by them for certain “significant” matters, which include votes on the election of directors, executive compensation matters, and any other matter determined to be significant. • Stock exchanges are prohibited from listing the securities of any issuer that does not have a policy providing for (i) disclosure of its policy on incentive compensation payable on the basis of financial information reportable under the securities laws, and (ii) the recovery from current or former executive officers, following an accounting restatement triggered by material noncompliance with securities law reporting requirements, of any incentive compensation paid erroneously during the three-year period preceding the date on which the restatement was required that exceeds the amount that would have been paid on the basis of the restated financial information. • Disclosure in annual proxy materials will be required concerning the relationship between the executive compensation paid and the financial performance of the issuer. • Item 402 of Regulation S-K will be amended to require companies to disclose the ratio of the Chief Executive Officer’s annual total compensation to the median annual total compensation of all other employees. The Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, adopted Basel III in September 2010, which constitutes a strengthened set of capital requirements for banking organizations in the United States and around the world. Basel III is currently the subject of notices of proposed rulemakings released in June of 2012 by the respective U.S. federal banking agencies. The comment period for these notices of proposed rulemakings ended on October 22, 2012. Basel III is intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013 and to be fully- phased in on a global basis on January 1, 2019. Basel III would require capital to be held in the form of tangible common equity, generally increase the required capital ratios, phase out certain kinds of intangibles treated as capital and certain types of instruments and change the risk weightings of assets used to determine required capital ratios. However, on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that they do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. They did not indicate the likely new effective date. These provisions, as well as any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, may impact the profitability of our business 18 activities and may change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, many of which are to be phased-in over the next several months and years, and assessing the probable impact on our operations. However, the ultimate effect of these changes on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, is uncertain at this time. See “Supervision and Regulation.” Our securities are not FDIC insured. Our securities are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Deposit Insurance Fund or any other governmental agency and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. The laws that regulate our operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, not our shareholders. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities, and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the purpose of protecting shareholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. We can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. Legislative and regulatory changes may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. The potential impact of changes in monetary policy and interest rates may negatively affect our operations. Our operating results may be significantly affected (favorably or unfavorably) by market rates of interest that, in turn, are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the United States government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. Our earnings will depend significantly upon our interest rate spread (i.e., the difference between the interest rate earned on our loans and investments and the interest raid paid on our deposits and borrowings). Like many financial institutions, we may be subject to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates, which, if significant, may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business; increased use of technology may expose us to service interruptions or breaches in security. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: • Telecommunications; • Data processing; • Automation; • Internet-based banking, including personal computers, mobile phones and tablets; • Telephone banking; 19 • Debit cards and so-called “smart cards”; and • Remote deposit capture. Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend, to a certain extent, on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. We offer electronic banking services for our consumer and business customers via our website, www.cnob.com, including internet banking and electronic bill payment, as well as mobile banking by phone. We also offer check cards, ATM cards, credit cards, and automatic and ACH transfers. The successful operation and further development of these and other new technologies will likely require additional capital investments in the future. In addition, increased use of electronic banking creates opportunities for interruptions in service or security breaches which could expose us to claims by customers or other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future, or that we will be able to maintain a secure electronic environment. If and when the Bank becomes subject to increased internal control reporting under FDIC regulations, if it cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting or if its independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the Bank’s internal controls, we may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny. If and when the Bank’s total assets exceed $1.0 billion, it will be subject to further reporting requirements under the rules of the FDIC as of for the fiscal year in which it exceeds such threshold. Pursuant to these rules, management will be required to prepare a report that contains an assessment by management of the Bank’s effectiveness of internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting as of the end of such fiscal year. The Bank will also be required to obtain an independent public accountant’s attestation report concerning its internal control structure over financial reporting that includes the call report and/or the FR Y-9C report. The rules that must be met for management to assess the Bank’s internal controls over financial reporting are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. The effort to comply with regulatory requirements relating to internal controls will likely cause us to incur increased expenses and will cause a diversion of management’s time and other internal resources. We also may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of the Bank’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the attestation process, the Bank may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements or receiving a favorable attestation from its independent registered public accounting firm. If the Bank cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting, or if its independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on the Bank’s internal controls, investor confidence and the price of our common stock could be adversely affected and we may be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments 