ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS IN GENERAL: Our business is dependent on our ability to grow, and an inability to attract new customers could adversely affect us. Our business is dependent on our ability to grow which is affected by our ability to retain and expand our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new customers. Our ability to retain existing customers and expand those relationships is subject to a number of risks including the risk that we do not: • maintain or improve the quality of services that we provide to our customers; • maintain or improve the level of attention expected by our customers; and • successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services. If our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new customers do not prove effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continuing relationship with Ocwen may inhibit our ability to obtain and retain other customers that compete with Ocwen. As of December 31, 2009, our chairman owns or controls 18% of Ocwen’s common stock and 24% of our common stock. We derived 47% of our revenues in 2009 from Ocwen or the loan servicing portfolio managed by Ocwen. Given this close and continuing relationship with Ocwen, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining and retaining other customers who compete with Ocwen. Should these and other potential customers continue to view Altisource as part of Ocwen or as too closely related to or dependent upon Ocwen, they may be unwilling to utilize our services and our growth could be inhibited as a result. We are dependent on certain key customer relationships, the loss of or their inability to pay could reduce our revenues. We currently generate approximately 47% of our revenue from Ocwen, including 72% and 44% of our Mortgage Services and Technology Products segments revenue, respectively. Following the Separation, Ocwen is contractually obligated to purchase certain Mortgage Services and Technology Products from us under service agreements that extend for eight years from the Separation Date subject to termination under certain provisions. Our most significant Financial Services customer is American Express which accounted for 16% of our total 2009 revenues. Our relationship with American Express is governed by an agreement that generally sets out the guidelines on which we will provide services although each assignment from American Express is separately agreed to by American Express. American Express is not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all, and the relationship is terminable by American Express by giving 30 days prior written notice to us. Assurant accounted for 12% of our 2009 revenue contributing to both our Mortgage Services and Technology Services segments. Our relationship with Assurant is governed by five year agreements that establish minimum service and pricing levels and generally are not terminable except in certain circumstances. 9 Table of Contents While no other individual client represents more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, we are exposed to customer concentration. Most of our customers are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all. The loss of any of these key customers or their failure to pay us could reduce our revenues and adversely affect results of operations. If we do not adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. The markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance, primarily through use of automation, econometrics and behavioral science principles, our current services and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their customers. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance monitoring. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services. Finally, our services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Any of these results would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Technology failures could damage our business operations and increase our costs. The industries in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, and system disruptions or failures may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers. Any sustained and repeated disruptions in these services may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintaining consumer confidence. Security breaches and acts of vandalism could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our customers’ personal information and transaction data. Consumers generally are concerned with security breaches and privacy on the Internet, and Congress or individual states could enact new laws regulating the electronic commerce market that could adversely affect us and our results of operations. We may be subject to claims of legal violations or wrongful conduct which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or modify our products or processes. From time to time, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings that claim legal violations or wrongful conduct. These lawsuits may involve clients, vendors, competitors and / or other large groups of plaintiffs and, if resulting in findings of violations, could result in substantial damages. Since the interpretation of some laws governing our business is prone to ambiguity, the company may be forced to settle some claims out of court and change existing company practices, products and processes that are currently revenue generating. This could lead to unexpected costs or a loss of revenue. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from their customers that apply to the financial institutions themselves. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits or to governmental proceedings; our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed; and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, the adoption of more restrictive privacy laws or rules in the future on the federal or state level could have an adverse impact on us. 10 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive regulation, and failure to comply with existing or new regulations may adversely impact us. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities including the Federal Trade Commission and the state agencies that license certain of our mortgage related services and collection services. We also must comply with a number of federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Homeowners Protection Act. These statutes apply to debt collection, foreclosure, real estate, settlement services and claims handling, and they mandate certain disclosures and notices to borrowers. These requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are enacted, promulgated or amended. We are subject to certain federal, state and local consumer protection provisions. We also are subject to licensing and regulation as a mortgage service provider and/or debt collector in a number of states. We are subject to audits and examinations that are conducted by the states in which we do business. Our employees and businesses that sell title insurance products and real estate services may be required to be licensed by various state commissions for the particular type of product sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. From time to time, we receive requests from state and other agencies for records, documents and information regarding our policies, procedures and practices regarding our mortgage services and debt collection business activities. We incur significant ongoing costs to comply with governmental regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict mortgage service activities. If our regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements which could further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can possibly lead to civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines and penalties, and litigation, including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could harm our results of operations or financial condition. Altisource is a Luxembourg company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers. Altisource is a public limited company organized under the laws of Luxembourg. As a result, Luxembourg law and the articles of incorporation govern the rights of shareholders. The rights of shareholders under Luxembourg law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A significant portion of the assets of Altisource are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce, in the United States, judgments obtained in U.S. courts against Altisource or its directors based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws or to enforce, in Luxembourg, judgments obtained in other jurisdictions including the United States. If the Distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, taxes could be imposed on Ocwen, Altisource and our shareholders. We have agreed to indemnify Ocwen for payment of taxes and tax-related losses and agreed to certain restrictions. Altisource has agreed to indemnify Ocwen for certain tax liabilities that, if triggered, could have a material adverse effect on Altisource’s financial condition and results of operations. Ocwen is subject to tax on certain of the asset transfers within Ocwen that were made in the pre-Distribution Restructuring, and under the applicable Treasury regulations, each member of Ocwen’s consolidated group at the time of the Separation (including several Altisource subsidiaries) would be severally liable for such tax liability. If the Distribution does not qualify as a tax-free transaction for United States income tax purposes, Ocwen shareholders generally would be treated as if they received a distribution equal to the full fair market value of the Altisource common stock on the date of the Separation. Even if the Distribution were to otherwise qualify for tax-free treatment, it would become taxable to Ocwen if stock representing a 50% or greater interest in Ocwen or Altisource were acquired by one or more persons, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Distribution. In order to help preserve the tax-free treatment of the Distribution, we have agreed not to take certain actions without first securing the consent of certain Ocwen officers or securing an opinion from a nationally 11 Table of Contents recognized law firm or accounting firm that such action will not cause the Distribution to be taxable. In general, such actions will include (i) for a period of two years after the Separation, engaging in certain transactions involving (a) the acquisition of our stock or (b) the issuance of shares of our stock. The covenants in, and our indemnity obligations under, the Tax Matters Agreement may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. These covenants and indemnity obligations might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that could be favorable to our common shareholders. See “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions — Agreements with Ocwen — Tax Matters Agreement.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 