ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELEATED TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Environmental Law Compliance The company is unable to determine whether the Unit will comply with applicable environmental laws. As our business plan involves offering equipment to remove contaminants from sand, we expect that we will be governed by the comprehensive federal and state laws that regulate the discharge of materials into or onto the environment or otherwise relate to health and safety or the protection of the environment. Our machine has not been tested to determine if it will meet any federal, state or agency requirements related to the discharge of wastewater and of the materials cleaned by our product. To the extent which environmental compliance may be necessary, we do not anticipate any significant compliance expense. The Company will be required to dispose of the waste water. The type and degree of contamination will determine where to dispose or release the wastewater. Waste water that cannot be released on location will be disposed at the local facility that accepts wastewater. If the wastewater is of the type that cannot be disposed of at a waste water facility then the Company will be required to dispose of the waste water at a facility that accepts industrial waste. If we are unable to successfully obtain additional financing, we will not have sufficient cash to continue operations. We will need to raise additional funds in order to satisfy our future liquidity requirements. We currently anticipate that our available cash resources will be insufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures and we will require additional funds earlier to the extent our level of operations significantly expands. We estimate our capital requirements to operate for the next twelve months at approximately $160,000. It is unlikely that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet any unexpected cash requirements during the next 12 months or to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures thereafter. It is likely that we will seek to meet these liquidity requirements through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. Current market conditions present uncertainty as to our ability to secure additional financing. There can be no assurances that we will be able to secure additional financing, or obtain favorable terms on such financing if it is available, or as to our ability to achieve positive cash flow from operations. Continued negative cash flows create significant uncertainty about our ability to implement our operating plan and we may have to reduce the scope of our planned operations. If cash and cash equivalents, together with cash generated from operations, if any, are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we will not have sufficient resources to continue operations. We have made no arrangements to obtain future additional financing at this time, and if required, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. As of our fiscal period ended February 28, 2011 and 2010, we had not generated sufficient revenues to meet our cash flow needs. As a result, our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are operating at a net loss, and may continue to incur losses for a period of time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds from our operating or financing activities to support our continued operations. If we cannot continue as a going concern, we may need to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations, which may reduce or negate the value of your investment. We have experienced operating losses since our inception and our auditors have indicated uncertainty concerning our ability to continue operations as a going concern. From inception (July 28, 2008) to the year ended February 28, 2011, we have incurred accumulated net losses of $189,577. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses and may not generate significant revenue, if any, for the immediate future. We have a working capital deficit of $121,966 at February 28, 2011, so our ability to continue as a going concern prior to the generation of significant revenue is dependent upon obtaining additional financing for our planned operations. If we fail to generate enough working capital, either from future equity or debt sales or revenue from operations, our ability to expand and complete our business plan will be materially affected, and you may lose all or substantially all of your investment. Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting May Be Inadequate Our management is required to assess the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. In this report on Form 10-K and in our report on Form 10-K, as amended, as of February 28, 2010, we deemed our internal controls over financial reporting inadequate. In the future, our internal control over financial reporting may not meet the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may incur additional costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404, 6 including increased auditing and legal fees and costs associated with hiring additional accounting and administrative staff. Ultimately, our efforts may not be adequate to comply with the requirements of Section 404. If we are unable to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or otherwise to comply with Section 404, we may not be able to report financial information on a timely basis and may suffer adverse regulatory consequences, among other things. The changes necessitated by becoming a public company will require a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight that will increase our costs and might place a strain on our systems and resources. As a result, our management’s attention might be diverted from other business concerns. In addition, we might not be successful in implementing and maintaining controls and procedures that comply with applicable requirements. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control environment or to comply with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements imposed on public companies, we could make material errors in, and be required to restate, our financial statements. Any such restatement could result in a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and sanctions imposed on us by the SEC. We do not have a developed product to sale or lease. Since inception, we have been unable to develop a product to sale or lease. It is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects because we have a limited operating history. We were incorporated in July 2008, are a development stage company and have had no revenue to date. Because we have a limited operating history, it is difficult to accurately predict whether and when we will generate revenue or to evaluate our future prospects and an investment in our common stock. Our prospects are uncertain and must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development. Our Common Stock Market Price may decrease greatly which may result in your inability to sale your shares. While our stock has a trading symbol to facilitate trades on the OTC "Pink Sheets," there is no significant public trading market for our shares of Common Stock. And there can be no assurance that a liquid market for our Common Stock will be established or that, if established, a market will be sustained at the price the stock was purchased for. Therefore, if you purchase our Common Stock you may be unable to sell the shares. Accordingly, you should be able to bear the financial risk of losing your entire investment. Our operating results may prove unpredictable. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly include the following: · our ability to generate enough working capital from future equity sales; · the level of commercial acceptance of our products; · our ability to enter into marketing and distribution agreements; · fluctuations in the demand for crude oil and products associated with refining crude oil; · intense competition in the environmental restoration sector, including direct competition from small and large independent companies, substantially all of which have existing relationships with companies that provide products or services that involve cleaning services during the aftermath of a natural disaster, environmental spill or industrial accident, and have significantly greater capital resources and infrastructure than we have; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; · general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the crude oil refining industry; and · other competing technologies entering the market. ADDITIONAL RISK FACTORS Our inability to obtain additional financing for operations could impair the value of your investment, and we may not be able to meet our future capital requirements. We will need to raise additional funds to continue our development of the prototype unit capable of washing contaminated sand on a large commercial scale. We may be unable to obtain any required additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we will be unable to fund our expansion, successfully promote our brand and products, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. It is likely we will seek to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will likely experience dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations, including limitations on the payment of dividends. There can be no assurances that we will be able to secure additional financing, or obtain favorable terms on such financing if it is available. Continued negative cash flows create uncertainty about our ability to fully implement our operating plan and we may have to reduce the scope of our planned operations, which may jeopardize our ability to continue our business. A material shortage of capital will require us to take drastic steps such as reducing our level of operations, disposing of selected assets or seeking protection under federal bankruptcy laws. We are a development stage, independent environmental manufacturing company, with no experience in the market, and failure to successfully compensate for this inexperience may adversely impact our operations and financial position. We operate as development stage environmental manufacturing company, with few substantial tangible assets in a highly competitive industry. We have little operating history, no customer base and no revenue to date. This makes it difficult to evaluate our future performance and prospects. Our company must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered in establishing a new business in an emerging and evolving industry characterized by intense competition, including: · our business model and strategy are still evolving and are continually being reviewed and revised; · we may not be able to raise the capital required to develop our initial customer base and reputation; · we may not be able to successfully implement our business model and strategy; · Our success is dependent upon management that has other full time employment, has limited experience and will only devote limited part time working for the Company, and this makes our future even more uncertain; · James Ditanna, our sole director and officer, has agreed to provide services on an as needed basis for a term of 24 months. We have not obtained key man life insurance. Notwithstanding the combined limited experience and time commitment of management, loss of the services would adversely affect development of our business and its likelihood of continuing operations; and · Our Director who is our sole Officer has a conflict of interest in that he is an officer and director of other companies, which will prevent him from devoting full-time to our operations. As a result of serving as an officer for other companies, the Director may not be able to provide a material amount of time towards furthering the business plan. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in meeting these challenges and addressing these risks and uncertainties. If we are unable to do so, our business will not be successful and the value of your investment in our company will decline. We have incurred net operating losses of $189,577 from our inception through February 28, 2011, and our chances of reaching significant operations are remote. Because we have to scale-up operations and acquire contracts only on a test-pilot basis, the chances that we will have significant commercial operations is remote. The Company also could, if a third party ever desired, license the Company's technology or contract to use our technology, equipment, or services to wash contaminated sand. Even if our technology works on a commercial scale, we may not succeed either because the technology does not work as well on a commercial scale as it does on a test-pilot scale or because our cost to clean contaminated sand is greater than the market price to remove and replace the contaminated sand. A key strategy for 8 the Company’s growth is substantially dependent upon its ability to acquire contracts in which to use its technology. The Company has no prior experience operating its technology on a commercial scale. The environmental recovery services industry is extremely competitive and if we are not able to compete successfully against other independent contractors both large and small, we will not be able operate our business and investors will lose their entire investment. The market for the environmental recovery services industry is extremely competitive and rapidly changing. We currently and in the future face competitive pressures from numerous actual and potential competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors in the environmental recovery services industry have substantial competitive advantages than we have, including: · longer operating histories; · significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources; · greater brand name recognition; · better distribution channels; · existing customer bases; and · commercially accepted products. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in the environmental recovery services industry and devote greater resources to identify, develop and market new products, and distribute and sell their products than we can. Our success will be largely dependent upon James Ditanna, our President and CEO, and other key personnel, and if Mr. Ditanna leaves our Company, our operations will largely cease until we can find a new replacement for him. Our success will be largely dependent upon the continued employment of James Ditanna, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and who has prior experience as an executive officer of a publicly-traded company. Mr. Ditanna agreed to serve as the sole officer and director for a two year period that expires on July 28, 2010. The loss of Mr. Ditanna could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of our business plan. It is possible that Mr. Ditanna will terminate his employment with us Our success depends in large part on our current key personnel and our ability to attract and retain additional key personnel, which we may or may not be able to do. Our inability to recruit and train adequate numbers of qualified personnel on a timely basis would adversely affect our ability to design, manufacture, market and support our products. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to hire additional experienced engineers, senior management and sales and marketing personnel. Opportunities available in other companies could make recruiting and retaining employees, especially design engineers, more difficult for the Company. To attract and retain individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large option or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to shareholders. We may also be required to pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, we will not be able to grow our business and our operation results will be harmed. Our sole officer and Director does not have any experience in the environmental services sector. Our Sole Officer and Director has no previous experience in managing or operating a company engaged in the environmental services sector. As the sole employee, the Company is reliant upon Mr. Ditanna to manage the affairs of the Company. To supplement the lack business experience of our officers and directors, we may be required to employ accountants, technical experts, appraisers, attorneys, or other consultants or advisors. The selection of any such advisors will be made by our officers without any input from shareholders. Furthermore, it is anticipated that such persons may be engaged on an “as needed” basis without a continuing fiduciary 9 or other obligation to the company. In the event management considers it necessary to hire outside advisors, they may elect to hire persons who are affiliates, if they are able to provide the required services. The Company’s sole Director and Officer will not devote all of his time to the Company’s business, the result of which could harm our business. The Company’s sole Director and Officer will be involved in other business activities that may result in his spending less time than is appropriate or necessary in order to manage the Company’s business successfully. The sole Director and Officer does not account for how much time he devotes to the Company. The Company’s arrangements with its officers and directors are that they may spend a material portion of their time providing services to other business pursuits and affiliates on matters unrelated to the business of the Company. Management has not performed any research to determine if the Unit will be a profitable option to replacing sand. The Company’s projected profits are dependent on the difference in the cost of cleaning sand compared to the cost associated with the excavating, hauling, disposing and replacement of the contaminated sand with clean sand. There is a risk the cost to remove, dispose and replace the contaminated sand will be cheaper than the cost to clean the sand with the Unit. If the costs associated with restoring the sand is more expensive, then there is a risk that few customers will contract to use the unit. The Company has not performed any research to determine if use of machine will produce satisfactory results on a scale that is cheaper than the replacement cost of the sand. Our operations are concentrated in the environmental recovery services industry, which means that our business will likely be adversely affected if there is a lack of natural disasters, environmental spills or industrial accidents. We will initially focus our operations on business connections with companies that operate in the environmental recovery services industry. Accordingly, a lack of lack of natural disasters, environmental spills or industrial accidents involving sand could impact our operations. Future acquisitions of companies may disrupt our business or distract our management. In the future, we may seek to acquire or make investments in complementary companies or businesses. We may not be able to acquire or manage additional businesses profitably or to successfully integrate any acquired businesses with our business. Businesses that we acquire may have liabilities that we underestimate or do not discover during our pre-acquisition investigations. Certain liabilities, even if we do not expressly assume them, may be imposed on us as the successor to the business. Further, each acquisition may involve other special risks that could cause the acquired businesses to fail to meet our expectations. For example: · the acquired businesses may not achieve expected results; · we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses; · we may incur substantial, unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems when we try to integrate businesses we acquire with our own; · our financial and managerial resources may be diverted from our core business; or · our management may not be able to manage the combined entity effectively or to make acquisitions and grow our business internally at the same time; · In addition, we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions or investments, which could dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders in our company. If we do not manage our anticipated growth efficiently, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. We expect to expand our operations by seeking additional financing. If we expand our operations, we may strain our management, operations, systems and financial resources. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must improve and effectively utilize our existing operational, management, marketing and financial systems and successfully recruit, hire, train and manage personnel and 10 maintain close coordination among our technical, finance, marketing, sales and production staffs. In addition, we will need to improve our accounting systems and procedures and computer software and hardware systems in order to operate our business more effectively and manage our expansion. We also will need to manage complex relationships with government agencies, strategic partners, advertisers and other third parties. Our failure to effectively manage our expected growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenue we expect. The Company does not own or possess any patent protection of the technology and may significantly impair our competitive advantage. The Company currently does not own or possess any patent protection of the proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of a license agreement, trade secrets, and nondisclosure to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. Even if the inventor files for a patent application, the patent and trade secret protection may not be adequate to deter third party infringement or misappropriation of any patents and similar proprietary rights. In addition, any potential patent issued to the inventor of the technology that is licensed to the Company may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our rights granted under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us, and the claims under our patent applications may not be allowed. We may be subject to or may initiate interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, which can demand significant financial and management resources. The process of seeking patent protection can be time consuming and expensive and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. We may face costly intellectual property infringement claims, the result of which would decrease the amount of cash we would anticipate to operate and complete our business plan. Any claims alleging infringement brought of third parties, regardless of merit, could result in protracted and costly litigation, damages for infringement, and the necessity of obtaining a license relating to one or more of our products or current or future technologies, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any intellectual property litigation and the failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE We are controlled by a majority stockholder, which means that the majority stockholder controls all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders, including, but not limited to, the election of directors. Our principal shareholder, IACE Investments Two, Inc. (“IACE”), currently owns approximately 80.45% of our Common Stock. It will have significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, but not requiring the approval of the minority shareholders. Therefore, IACE will be able to control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment to our Articles of Incorporation, the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions, and will also have control over our management and affairs. As a result of such control, certain transactions may not be possible without the approval of IACE, including proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other transactions that could give our stock holders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares of common stock. IACE Investments Two, Inc (IACE) is the controlling shareholder with control over the Company. Our principal shareholder, IACE Investments Two, Inc. currently owns approximately 80.45% of our Common Stock. It will have significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, but not requiring the approval of the minority shareholders. In addition, the sole shareholder of IACE Investments Two, Inc. is John Heskett. In effect, John Heskett will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors, allowing him to exercise significant control of our affairs and management. In addition, he may transact most corporate matters requiring shareholder approval by written consent, without a duly-noticed and duly-held meeting of shareholders. Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. 11 Some of the provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price. For example, our articles of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which 5,000,000 are available for issuance. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance shares of preferred stock with superior voting rights to shares of common stock, could delay or inhibit the removal of incumbent directors and could delay, defer, make more difficult or prevent a merger, tender offer or proxy content, or any change in control involving SA Recovery Corp., as well as the removal of management, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of SA Recovery Corp.’s shareholders, and may limit the price certain investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of common stock. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock and therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent, or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control. In addition, IACE’s substantial ownership positions and right to elect one member to the board of directors may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of the common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 