ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our continuing relationship with Ocwen may inhibit our ability to obtain and retain other customers that compete with Ocwen. As of December 31, 2012, our Chairman owns or controls more than 13% of Ocwen’s common stock and 23% of our common stock. We derived 60% of our revenue in 2012 from Ocwen or the servicing portfolio managed by Ocwen. Given this close and continuing relationship with Ocwen, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining and retaining other customers who compete with Ocwen. Should these and other potential customers continue to view Altisource as part of Ocwen or as too closely related to or dependent upon Ocwen, they may be unwilling to utilize our services, and our growth could be inhibited as a result. We are dependent on certain key customer relationships, the loss of or their inability to pay could affect our business and results of operations. We currently generate approximately 60% of our revenue from Ocwen. Following the Separation from Ocwen, Ocwen is contractually obligated to purchase certain services from our Mortgage Services and Technology Services segments under service agreements that extend through August 2020 subject to termination under certain provisions. While no other individual client represents more than 10% of our consolidated revenue, we are exposed to customer concentration. Most of our customers are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all. The loss of any of these key customers or their failure to pay us could reduce our revenue and adversely affect results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial competition. The markets for our services are very competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. We compete for existing and new customers against both third parties and the in-house capabilities of our customers. Some of our competitors have substantial resources and some have widely used technology platforms which they seek to use as a competitive advantage to drive sales of other products and services. In addition, we expect the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. These new technologies may render our existing technologies obsolete, resulting in operating inefficiencies and increased competitive pressure. There can be no assurance we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our services. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets. The efforts we have taken to protect these proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property or significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, make it more expensive to do business or hurt our ability to compete. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, can also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. In addition, given the costs of obtaining 10 Table of Contents patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. Technology failures could damage our business operations and increase our costs. System disruptions or failures may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers. Any sustained and repeated disruptions in these services may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintaining consumer confidence. Security breaches and acts of vandalism could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect our customers’ personal information and transaction data and could result in the assessment of penalties. Furthermore, Congress or individual states could enact new laws regulating electronic commerce that could adversely affect us and our results of operations. We have a long sales cycle for many of our services and technology solutions and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may experience a long sales cycle for developing certain services. We may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular service or customer that does not generate revenue. In addition, many of our services in the Technology Services segment are based on sophisticated software and computing systems with long sales cycles. We may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. We may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. Further, defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, loss of customers, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle or costs incurred that do not result in sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, and failure to comply with existing or new regulations may adversely impact us. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities including the FTC, the CFPB, the SEC and the state agencies that license certain of our mortgage related services and collection services. We also must comply with a number of federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the California Homeowner’s Bill of Rights, the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are enacted, promulgated or amended. The ongoing economic uncertainty and troubled housing market have resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of all participants involved in the mortgage industry. This scrutiny has included federal and state governmental agency review of all aspects of the mortgage lending and servicing industries, including an increased legislative and regulatory focus on consumer protection practices. One such enacted regulation is the Dodd-Frank Act (see further description in the “Government Regulation” section in Item 1 of Part I, “Business”). In some cases, penalties for noncompliance are significantly increased and could lead to settlements or consent orders on us or our customers that may curtail or restrict our business as it is currently conducted. We are subject to certain additional certain federal, state and local consumer protection regulations. We also are subject to licensing and regulation as a mortgage services provider, mortgage origination underwriter, valuation provider, appraisal management company, asset manager, property manager, title insurance agency, other insurance related services provider, real estate broker and/or debt collector in a number of states. We are subject to audits and 11 Table of Contents examinations that are conducted by the states in which we do business. Our employees and subsidiaries may be required to be licensed by various state commissions for the particular type of service sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. From time to time, we receive requests from state and other agencies for records, documents and information regarding our policies, procedures and practices for our mortgage services and debt collection business activities. We incur significant ongoing costs to comply with governmental regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict mortgage services activities. If our regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with such requirements which could further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can possibly lead to civil and criminal liability, loss of licensure, damage to our reputation in the industry, fines and penalties, and litigation, including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could harm our results of operations or financial condition. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from their customers that apply to the financial institutions themselves. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to lawsuits or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, the adoption of more restrictive privacy laws or rules in the future on the federal or state level could have an adverse impact on us. If financial institutions at which we hold escrow funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company. We hold customers’ assets in escrow at various financial institutions, pending completion of certain real estate. These amounts are held in escrow for limited periods of time, generally consisting of a few days, and are generally not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Failure of one or more of these financial institutions may lead us to become liable for the funds owed to third parties, and there is no guarantee we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage, private insurance or otherwise. We may be subject to claims of legal violations or wrongful conduct which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or modify our products or processes. From time to time, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings that claim legal violations or wrongful conduct. These lawsuits may involve clients, vendors, competitors and/or other large groups of plaintiffs and, if resulting in findings of violations, could result in substantial damages. Alternatively, we may be forced to settle some claims out of court and change existing company practices, services and processes that are currently revenue generating. This could lead to unexpected costs or a loss of revenue. Our debt makes us more sensitive to the effects of economic change; our level of debt and provisions in our debt agreements could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. Our debt makes us more vulnerable to changes in our results of operations because a portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to servicing our debt and is not available for other purposes. Additionally, increases in interest rates will negatively impact our cash flows as the interest on our debt is variable. The provisions of our debt agreement could have other negative consequences to us including the following: · limiting our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations, our business or the industry in which we compete and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to invest in the business. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing or sell assets. This may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Without any such financing, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. If necessary, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations. In addition, our debt agreement contains covenants that limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry including limitations on incurring additional indebtedness, making investments, granting liens and merging or consolidating with other companies. Complying with these covenants may impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreement, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Our debt agreement requires us to comply with various operational, reporting and other covenants that limit us from engaging in certain types of transactions. If there were an event of default under our debt agreement that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated, upon an event of default or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt instruments. Our financial results could be negatively affected if Ocwen fails to repay our loan to them as expected. On December 27, 2012, we loaned $75.0 million to Ocwen under a senior unsecured term loan agreement (the “Ocwen Term Loan”). If Ocwen defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of Ocwen, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our loan would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our loan. After repaying such senior creditors, Ocwen may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. Risks Related to our Growth Strategy Our ability to grow is affected by our ability to retain and expand our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new customers. Our ability to retain existing customers and expand those relationships and attract new customers is subject to a number of risks including the risk that we do not: · maintain or improve the quality of services we provide to our customers; · maintain or improve the level of attention expected by our customers; · successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services and · attract other servicers and non-distressed home sellers as new customers on our consumer real estate portal. If our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new customers do not prove effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to grow our operations. If we do not adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. The markets for our services are characterized by constant technological change, frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance, primarily through use of automation, econometrics and behavioral science principles, our current services and 13 Table of Contents develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their customers. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance effectiveness. There can be no assurance we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services. Finally, our services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Any of these results would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to grow our operations. Our growth objectives are dependent on the timing and market acceptance of our new service offerings. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in service development or the inability to gain market acceptance of new services to existing and new customers. There are no guarantees new services will prove to be commercially successful. Our business is dependent on the trend toward outsourcing. Our continued growth at historical rates is dependent on the industry trend toward outsourced services. There can be no assurance this trend will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services themselves or may be prevented from outsourcing services. A significant change in this trend could have a materially adverse effect on our continued growth. Our strategy of growing through acquisitions and mergers involves potential risks. We intend to consider acquisitions of other businesses that could complement our business. In addition to considering acquisitions that could offer us greater access in our current markets, we also consider acquisition of entities offering greater access and expertise in other asset types and markets that are related to ours but we do not currently serve. We also intend to acquire certain fee based businesses from Ocwen in connection with their acquisitions of servicing platforms. If we acquire businesses, we may face a number of risks including diverting management’s attention from our daily operations to the need for additional management, operational and financial resources along with system conversions and the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. Moreover, any acquisition may result in the incurrence of additional amortization expense of related intangible assets which could reduce our profitability. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits we expect from the separation of Residential. We may not be able to achieve the strategic and financial benefits we expect from the spin-off of Residential or such benefits may be delayed. These outcomes may occur if, among other things, Residential is not successful in executing its strategy to acquire non-performing loan portfolios with a portion of the portfolios converting to single-family rental assets or if Residential is not successful in raising equity and debt to grow. Risks Related to International Business Our international operations subject us to additional risks which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have reduced our costs by utilizing lower cost labor in foreign countries such as India and the Philippines. As of December 31, 2012, over 4,600 of our employees were based in India and the Philippines. These countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters. Such disruptions can decrease efficiency and increase our costs in these countries. Weakness of the United States dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, some of our customers may require us to use labor based in the United States. We may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher-priced United States-based labor to our customers which ultimately could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the FCPA. Any violations of the FCPA or local anti-corruption laws by us, our subsidiaries or our local agents, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and result in substantial financial penalties or other sanctions. Any political or economic instability in these countries could result in our having to replace or reduce these labor sources which may increase our labor costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Altisource is a Luxembourg company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers. Altisource is a public limited company organized under the laws of Luxembourg. As a result, Luxembourg law and the articles of incorporation govern the rights of shareholders. The rights of shareholders under Luxembourg law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A significant portion of the assets of Altisource are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce, in the United States, judgments obtained in United States courts against Altisource or its directors based on the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or to enforce, in Luxembourg, judgments obtained in other jurisdictions including the United States. Risks Related to Our Employees Our success depends on our directors, executive officers and key personnel Our success is dependent on the efforts and abilities of our directors, executive officers and other key employees many of whom have significant experience in the real estate and mortgage industries. In particular we are dependent on the services of William C. Erbey, our Chairman of the Board, and William B. Shepro, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as the services of key personnel at each of our segments. The loss of the services of any of these directors, executives or key personnel, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our inability to attract and retain skilled employees may adversely impact our business. Our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, train and retain skilled employees. Additionally, demand for qualified technical and software professionals conversant in certain technologies may exceed supply as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer technology. Our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. Our inability to attract and retain skilled employees or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training or retaining skilled employees could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could have conflicts with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC, and the Chairman or other members of our Board of Directors could have conflicts of interest due to his or their relationship with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC, which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. Conflicts may arise between Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. Our Chairman is also the Chairman of Ocwen, HLSS, Residential and AAMC. As a result, he has obligations to us as well as to these other entities and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC, as the case may be. We will also seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC and through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 