Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of reasons why our actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our expectations change. Overview We were incorporated in Delaware in February 2001, with a mission to change the way that work gets done. We believe that our social business platform drives top line revenue and cost savings by unleashing creativity, driving innovation and improving productivity through increased engagement and collaboration within the enterprise, as well as with customers and partners. We believe that, just as consumer social technologies have changed the way we live, social business technologies are evolving into an increasingly important business tool that is changing the way we work. We provide a social business platform that we believe improves business results by enabling a more productive and effective workforce through enhanced communications and collaboration both inside and outside the enterprise. We believe our platform is intuitive, easy to use, secure, flexible and scalable. It can be provided as a public cloud service or as a private cloud solution. We are focused on unlocking the power of the enterprise social graph - the extended social network of an enterprise, encompassing relationships among its employees, customers and partners, as well as their interactions with people, content, and business information. Organizations deploy our platform to improve strategic decision making and employee productivity, enhance revenue opportunities, lower operational costs and increase customer retention. Our customers use our platform across broad business use cases, such as strategic alignment, that involve all employees, as well as functional use cases that improve the results of specific business activities such as sales execution or customer service. 2 Table of Contents Our social business software has been recognized as a leading platform by industry analysts. Gartner has again recognized us as a market leader in their report, the “Magic Quadrant for Social Software in the Workplace,” released in the third quarter of 2013. We sell our platform primarily through a direct sales force both domestically and internationally. As of December 31, 2013, we had 876 enterprise Jive Platform customers. Some of our top new customers by annual contract value for the year ended December 31, 2013 include the Adeo Services, JM Family Enterprises, FICO, Huntsman, RadioShack and Windstream. Recent Developments On April 18, 2013, we acquired substantially all of the assets and certain related liabilities of Clara Ehf. (“Clara”), a private limited company founded in Iceland that provides a cloud-based analytics tool that allows businesses to understand, monitor and actively engage with community members within online platforms. On April 29, 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of StreamOnce, Inc. (“StreamOnce”), whose product offers a platform that connects third-party information streams directly into our Jive Social Business Platform, integrating disparate information systems for increased productivity. In 2013, we released strategic integrations with complementary vendors Box Inc. (“Box”) and Okta Inc. (“Okta”), making it possible to provide customers with an integrated stack of best of breed cloud platforms. • Box: in late 2012, Jive and Box announced a strategic partnership, and the intention to co-develop a deep integration between the two platforms. That integration was released in April 2013, and combines Jive’s best-in-breed communication and collaboration capabilities with Box’s best-in-breed content capabilities. • Okta: in October 2013, Jive and Okta announced a strategic partnership and integration between Jive and Okta’s identity-management service. Throughout 2013, we introduced many product and feature enhancements. Updates to Jive Cloud are released quarterly, while our traditional public and private cloud platforms incorporate many of the enhancements of the Jive Cloud releases on an annual basis. Major new offerings on our platform introduced in 2013 included: Purposeful Places, which brings people, content and information together in intelligent collaboration areas optimized around specific business activities to produce tangible outcomes; Structured Outcomes, which takes everyday workplace conversations and converts them into actionable activities; and integration with an even broader enterprise ecosystem including Box and salesforce.com. Additionally, we released new cloud business analytics tools on our platform to directly measure business value, as well as enhancements to our Jive Anywhere capability. We also expanded our focus on our external communities with the introduction of JiveX, our next generation cloud-based external community platform, which included the continued integration of our Advanced Gamification and point-and-click analytics. Our Solution We deliver a social business platform that features the innovation, creativity and ease of use found in consumer applications combined with the security, flexibility and scalability necessary for enterprise deployment. Key Elements • Unified social platform for the enterprise. We offer an enterprise-class social platform, purpose-built to enable our customers to manage workplace communication and collaboration. Our solution can be deployed across all employees, functional departments and business units. • Communities for employees, customers and partners. Our solution enables our customers to operate both internal and external communities by offering a platform that allows communication and collaboration between and among employees, customers and partners. Our solution also 3 Table of Contents enables our customers to extend their reach by including partners, outside agencies, contractors and other external parties in their Jive community with complete security and privacy by using our Externally Accessible Groups feature. • Discovery of relevant information and experts. Our platform includes a proprietary recommendation engine that helps users connect to and easily locate relevant information and experts on an enterprise-wide basis across departmental and geographic boundaries, as well as across externally-facing customer and partner communities. • Scalable and secure. Our platform is capable of supporting large deployments, including those with complex environments with tens of thousands of employees internally and millions of users externally. We provide tools to help our customers manage the critical elements of application security, including authentication, authorization and regulatory compliance. • Measuring business value. We enable customers to identify the impact of our platform on a particular business outcome. This includes identifying relevant user metrics, success rates and positive trends across the business. • Integration with existing enterprise applications. Our platform integrates with legacy IT infrastructure and a broad range of existing enterprise applications — including email, content management, customer relationship management, marketing automation, product development, eCommerce and instant messaging — and enables access from mobile devices, browsers, desktop applications, collaboration applications and consumer social platforms. • Enterprise applications market built on open standards. We enable customers and third parties to develop applications that leverage our platform through our rich APIs, built on the industry standard OpenSocial specifications. • Readily deployable and configurable solution. Our platform has been developed to facilitate easy deployment with familiar interfaces. We offer our customers the ability to configure our solutions to deliver the specific functionality and user experience they want for their end-users, and the ability to modify the look and feel of our solutions to conform to their branding or other requirements. • Public cloud and private cloud delivery. Our customers can use our platform on demand through the public cloud, or via a private cloud. In addition to our standard public cloud platform, in 2012 we released Jive Cloud, one of our public cloud services that is on a quarterly release cycle and is a non-customizable version of our platform. This flexible delivery model allows us to meet a variety of security and cost requirements and better address the needs of each customer, and enables us to target a wider range of potential customers. Business Benefits • Improve strategic decision making. Our platform helps our customers to improve and accelerate decision making by increasing the flow of ideas, streamlining and recommending the most relevant content, and delivering a comprehensive set of analytics that provide insight into employee and customer communications. • Improve employee productivity. Our centralized collaboration platform and proprietary recommendation engine leverages relationships, expertise and areas of interest to efficiently connect employees with one another, simplify the process of finding people and information and substantially reduce duplicate tasks. Employees can also collaborate more effectively through sharing and commenting using our platform and leveraging our integrations with legacy business applications. • Enhance revenue opportunities. Our platform helps our customers to create and manage external communities, which can increase brand awareness, attract new customers, inspire new product ideas and deliver referrals to sales teams. Internal communities can also make our customers’ sales representatives more efficient by quickly connecting them with relevant information and expertise within the enterprise. • Lower operational costs. Our platform helps our customers reduce operating costs via communication efficiencies and improved knowledge management. Externally, our solution enables our customers to provide more effective and efficient support communities while significantly reducing customer support infrastructure expenses, including call centers. Internally, our solution can reduce information discovery time for end-users, reducing ramp time for new hires and increasing employee efficiency. • Increase customer retention. We enable enterprises to strengthen connections to their customers. Our platform enables enterprises to increase customer satisfaction and retention by establishing communities to support their end-users and enable their end-users to interact with each other. This support and interaction allows our customers to more quickly and effectively process end-user queries and feedback. 4 Table of Contents Our Strategy Our goal is to extend our industry leadership in social business platforms. The principal elements of our strategy include: • Grow our customer base. In order to grow our customer base, we invested heavily in our direct sales efforts in 2013 through significant investments in our sales organization in the United States, Europe and Asia. Additionally, we plan to further leverage our existing partnerships and grow our indirect distribution efforts by increasing our network of channel partners. We intend to target new partnerships with partners who offer complimentary technology and services in the marketplace, which we believe will make our joint solutions more compelling to our customers. • Expand business with existing customers. We have successfully migrated, and intend to continue migrating, customers from a single external community or departmental deployment to broader implementations over time, including the upsell of additional users, page views, modules, services and additional communities. We will continue to focus on generating positive user experiences and tangible business results that we believe will drive incremental demand for our solutions. • Innovate and extend our technology and product leadership. We intend to expand our current platform and extend our product leadership by developing and acquiring innovative technologies and products, and leveraging the innovation of our partners. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we introduced an update to our platform with the release of Jive 7 and our Jive Cloud Fall release, which includes new features such as Purposeful Places, impact metrics, Structured Outcomes, and three new mobile applications, all enabling a more comprehensive social experience. • Develop the Jive ecosystem. We intend to continue to develop the Jive ecosystem by enabling customers and other third parties to create applications that integrate with our platform. We further intend to increase the number of our Jive Alliance Partners that provide strategic advisory, business transformation and customization services for our solutions. For example, in late 2012, Jive and Box announced a strategic partnership, and the intention to co-develop a deep integration between the two products. That integration was released in April 2013, and combines Jive’s best-in-breed communication and collaboration capabilities with Box’s best-in-breed content capabilities. Our Platform The Jive Platform is delivered in two key configurations, Jive for internal networks, and the JiveX platform for public communities. These platforms offer industry-leading social business capabilities that enable employee, customer and partner engagement. The core platform can be expanded by adding optional modules, including Advanced Tasks, Jive Present, Gamification, Ideation, Mobile, Video, and connectors into existing enterprise systems and applications, such as Microsoft Office and SharePoint. Our platform can also be extended to include cloud and customer-built applications through extensive APIs and development interfaces. The Jive Platform The Jive Platform is delivered in two configurations: • Employees. Our platform connects users across the enterprise and its functional departments, leveraging social intelligence, such as business relationships, expertise and areas of interest, to help employees stay aligned, informed and productive. • Customers and partners. The JiveX platform enables companies to build and manage external communities to build their brand, reduce their support costs and enable channels through enhanced online communication with their own customers and business partners. 5 Table of Contents Core Platform Capabilities and Features Our social business platform includes the following capabilities and features: • Social networking capability. The Jive Platform enables rich social profiles, visual enterprise directories, connections and expertise identification. Users can easily find, follow and access both people and data through structured spaces, including public and private social groups and projects. This provides users with up to the minute access to relevant and critical information. • Comprehensive communication environment. Our platform enables blogging, microblogging, discussions, real time chat and video conversations and direct messaging and aggregates these familiar methods of social communications into a social inbox to allow users to find relevant information quickly and easily. • Engaging social features. Our platform provides a streamlined and intuitive user interface and enables commenting, sharing Web bookmarks, “liking,” reviews and rating capabilities designed to capture the attention of a user and drive interaction and adoption. • Reputation and recognition. Our platform provides a variety of mechanisms for users to be recognized for their contributions to the community and to proactively build their reputations, including community status leaderboards, user achievement badges and trending people and content. • Content and collaboration. Our platform includes wikis, document sharing, an easy-to-use rich text editor and full-fidelity rendering of Microsoft Office documents and PDFs with inline commenting, allowing users to collaborate real-time. Our platform enhances collaboration by allowing users to control access to content at the individual, group or document level. • Search. Our platform includes advanced search capabilities to locate relevant people, content and groups using information captured in the enterprise social graph, such as users’ unique skills or profile information. • External groups. Our platform enables an enterprise to expand its operating ecosystem, bringing discussions and questions in external communities back into the enterprise and allows internal users to create an external group for secure, private, ad-hoc collaboration with non-employees. • Security. Our platform allows customers to control access to specific content and groups. In addition, it is designed to take advantage of and integrate with existing security and authentication systems. • Connections to enterprise systems. Our platform can integrate with numerous enterprise systems such as customer relationship management, enterprise resource planning, software configuration management, or product lifecycle management systems, via our application programming interfaces, or APIs. Recommendations The Jive recommendation engine is an innovative user interface that makes it easy to track, consume, manage and filter critical business information, communications and actions. A key component is a highly tuned enterprise activity stream that enables users to rapidly access, discover and interact with conversations, content and decisions. Our noise filtering capability addresses the challenges of information overload, helping users focus on mission critical, timely information. Additionally, the recommendation engine draws on real-time intelligence derived from the enterprise social graph to predict and recommend content, people and groups to users, based upon employee roles, positions and previous communications. Integration and Extension The Jive Platform is a communication and collaboration hub, bringing together information and conversation from many different systems. In addition to the many integrations included with the Jive Platform, Jive provides extensive capabilities for integrating our platform with other systems. Jive provides extensive, rich developer APIs and tools that enable bi-directional exchange of content, conversation, streams and data between Jive and other systems. Many third-party developers have created commercial integrations that are available in the Jive Add Ons directory. Further, the APIs and developer tools are available for in-house IT teams to integrate and extend our platform based on company-specific requirements. 6 Table of Contents Jive Anywhere Jive Anywhere enables users to import any content into the Jive Platform that can be viewed on a web browser. This feature automatically connects conversation, content and context within a user’s Jive network with any website or web application. Jive Anywhere helps users avoid complicated point-to-point integrations between their collaborative platform and other enterprise systems and websites by making it easy to discuss and share content with one click. Platform Modules Jive offers additional functionality in modules built to integrate with the Jive Platform. Enterprise Integrations. Jive provides several pre-built integrations with common content management applications, communication systems and systems of record, including the following: • Microsoft Outlook. Enables users to interact with our platform from the familiar interface of Microsoft Outlook. Users can see activity streams and social profiles, comment on documents and blog posts, and create status updates and discussions, from within Microsoft Outlook. Users can also turn email threads into discussions and post email attachments directly to our platform. Users can use the search feature to include people, emails, appointments and attachments from Microsoft Outlook, as well as documents and discussions from the Jive Platform. • Microsoft Office. Users can collaborate on Microsoft Office documents, including simultaneously co-authoring across different Microsoft Office versions, publishing content directly to our platform and participating in document discussions from directly within Microsoft Word, PowerPoint or Excel. • Jive StreamOnce. Jive StreamOnce automatically feeds information into Jive from a wide range of sources such as email, activity streams, social media and content apps, consolidating streams in one place. Users can see and respond to these streams directly from the Jive Platform. • Content management systems. Content management systems, such as Microsoft SharePoint, can be integrated into our platform so that content can be shared across our platform and these systems. Users can search our platform and content management systems simultaneously and can access our social capabilities from within these systems. • Enterprise IM. Enterprise instant messaging systems, such as Microsoft Lync, can be integrated into our platform. Advanced Gamification. We include game mechanics as a standard feature. Our Advanced Gamification Module expands on these core features to deliver a more personalized, highly targeted experience. Advanced Gamification makes it easier to create custom missions and competitions to kickstart user participation and drive user behavior, such as encouraging sales reps to complete training or customer service agents to answer customer questions in a timely fashion. Advanced Tasks. Our task management module integrates directly into Jive, enabling users to assign, schedule and prioritize tasks as they work. Users track and manage all their tasks, as well as their team’s, in one simple view – from a desktop, mobile device or Outlook inbox. Business Analytics. Our Business Analytics module enables companies to monitor and measure the processes critical to organizational performance, measuring the effectiveness of a company’s onboarding process, employee productivity, or alignment on strategic initiatives. External Groups. Users can collaborate with their entire extended team, including those outside the firewall. Security and permissions controls let users specify who sees what, without exposing confidential information to people outside the company or outside the relationship. Ideation. Our Ideation module involves employees, customers and partners in the process of capturing, refining and prioritizing innovative ideas. Once an idea is submitted, users can vote it up or down, and discuss ways to improve the idea. Those managing the ideation process can categorize ideas to keep participants up-to-date of progress. 7 Table of Contents Jive Present. Jive Present enables sales teams to have the most up-to-date sales content at their fingertips on demand. Jive Present turns iPads into high-impact sales presentation tools, which are kept up to date by content provided directly by our platform. We believe that with Jive Present, a sales team can have the collateral, product information and customer intelligence needed to close deals quickly. Jive Resonata. For our JiveX Platform, Jive Resonata analyzes the activity in a JiveX customer community and reveals the sentiments, behaviors and motivations that drive participation and satisfaction. It identifies a community’s champions and detractors, tracks trends and spots emerging problems. Mobile. Our Mobile module enables users in both internal and external communities to access our platform from mobile devices. Users can search for people and content, participate in discussions and post status updates remotely. Because Jive Mobile is built on mobile standards such as HTML5, it is accessible on any Internet connected mobile device, including on mobile platforms such as Apple iOS, Google Android and Blackberry OS. The mobile interface can also be themed to reflect a company’s brand, ensuring a consistent brand experience. Additionally, Jive provides native mobile applications for iPhones, iPads, and Android devices. Video. The Jive Platform includes the ability to embed videos in different content types and to create a secure video storage, management and streaming service as part of an internal or external community. Professional Services and Customer Support Our professional services team provides a range of offerings including strategy consulting, project management, technical expertise and education and training. Our team leads the design, implementation and launch of the Jive platform and seeks to ensure that our solution meets the design and implementation parameters established by our customers with clearly measurable business benefits. We also provide post-launch support and on-going assistance to encourage and facilitate adoption within the enterprise. We offer training services to our customers and partners. We offer both traditional classroom-style, instructor-led training either in-person or over the web and online educational classes. We also provide a variety of training videos and quick start guides that are available online. Our education offerings are targeted at training partners, users, community managers and system administrators. Our global customer support organization provides both proactive and customer-initiated support. Assistance is available by email, telephone and through our online Jive Community built on our social business platform. Customers can track the status and relevant information relating to their queries in real-time and have access to a wide range of information sharing utilities that facilitate access to both internal and external community feedback. Our support team is staffed with experienced support specialists and engineers and has experience with the software systems with which our products integrate. We engage in regular training and certification processes as new products and technologies are introduced. Our basic deployment includes silver level support. Our customers may contract for increased levels of support, which provides for higher required service levels for response times as well as additional support services. Technology and Operations Our product portfolio brings the Jive experience to a broad set of platforms and applications and is designed to bring powerful communication capabilities and valuable context to users, regardless of where or how they are working. Our platform can be accessed from mobile phones, tablets, and desktop computers; as a browser, Microsoft Office, or SharePoint plugin; and through a rich set of REST, JavaScript, and Objective C APIs. System integrators, third-party vendors and customers alike leverage our APIs to extend, customize, and integrate with our platform. 8 Table of Contents Our core application is written primarily in Java and is designed to run on both public and private cloud deployments. It runs on the Linux operating system and is compatible with Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle and PostgreSQL. In our public cloud, we are developing and porting an increasing portion of our features to multi-tenant architectures, many of which build upon the Hadoop family of technologies. Through connectivity to our cloud, private cloud deployments can also access such functionality, which includes Jive What Matters and mobile. The Jive Platform integrates with existing enterprise systems and can be extended with new functionality through the utilization of a broad set of APIs. These APIs facilitate the building of custom integrations to our platform. Our social business platform is provided through the public cloud or on-premise in a private cloud. Release schedules for Jive Cloud occur prior to release for our public cloud and private cloud offerings. In both our public cloud and private cloud deployments, our customers can customize our platform to meet their enterprise requirements for branding and security, through customer-specific domain names, SSL encryption and other mechanisms. We host our Jive Cloud and public cloud platform for hundreds of our customers and millions of end-users. We work with large data center vendors to provide the international foundation of our social business platform. Our enterprise-class hardware platform provides high levels of performance, flexibility and security. We currently utilize multiple international data center facilities located in North America and Europe. Each facility utilizes multiple network providers, as well as services to help ensure security, reliability, redundancy and performance. We maintain and operate additional facilities in geographically diverse locations for offsite backup storage and disaster recovery. In 2013, we completed our migration from SunGard operating environments to co-located facilities managed by our internal architecture and operations team. In connection with this migration, we have also developed technology that enables us to automate the process of deploying and upgrading customer environments. We continue to make significant investments in our hosting infrastructure to improve efficiency, performance and security and to increase our ability to scale our hosting environment. Our architecture and security teams are based in our Palo Alto, California headquarters and in Portland, Oregon, with our network operations center and deployment teams based in Portland, Oregon and the United Kingdom. Sales and Marketing We sell our platform primarily through our global direct sales organization. Our direct sales team is comprised of inside sales and field sales personnel who are organized by prospect company size and geographic regions, including North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. We also work with channel partners, including resellers, leading global outsourcing vendors and system integrators. As of December 31, 2013, we had 202 employees in sales and marketing and we had more than 100 Jive Alliance Partners, creating referrals and reselling our platform worldwide, including PwC US, Box and Okta. We generate customer leads, accelerate sales opportunities and build brand awareness through our marketing programs. Our marketing programs target company executives both inside and outside of Information Technology organizations, senior business leaders and other technology professionals. Our principal marketing programs include: • use of our website to provide product and company information, as well as learning opportunities for potential customers; • regional field marketing events for customers and prospects; • sales development professionals who prospect for new leads and respond to incoming leads to convert them into new sales opportunities; • participation in, and sponsorship of, user conferences, trade shows and industry events; • customer programs, including user meetings and our online customer community; • online marketing activities, including direct email, online web advertising, blogs and webinars; • public relations and social networking initiatives; 9 Table of Contents • cooperative marketing efforts with partners, including joint press announcements, joint trade show activities, channel marketing campaigns and joint seminars; and • sponsorships and participation in marketing programs in the broader Jive ecosystem. In addition, in October of every year, we host our annual JiveWorld global user conference, where current and potential customers participate in a variety of programs designed to help drive business results through the use of our platform. This conference features a variety of prominent keynote and customer speakers, panelists, and presentations focused on businesses of all sizes, across a wide range of industries. Attendees also gain insight into our recent product releases and enhancements and participate in interactive sessions that give them the opportunity to express opinions on new features and functionality. Customers We generally sell our platform and related services through our global sales organization directly to businesses, government agencies and other enterprises. As of December 31, 2013, we had 876 Jive Platform customers in diverse industries, including consulting services, education, financial services, healthcare, life sciences, manufacturing, retail, telecommunications and technology. No individual customer represented more than 10% of our total revenues in 2013, 2012 or 2011. The following table sets forth a representative list of a selection of our largest customers by industry category: Financial Services Healthcare Retail AIA Group The Bank of New York Mellon Fidelity Liberty Mutual Scotiabank Aetna Allscripts Kaiser Permanente Spectrum Health United Health Group Adeo Services Givaudan AG RadioShack Starbucks Ricoh Americas Corp Technology Telecommunications FICO Hitachi Data Systems McAfee NetApp SAP AG Alcatel-Lucent Motorola Solutions Sprint T-Mobile Verizon Research and Development We center much of our product development on the needs of our customers. We work closely with our user community to continually improve and enhance our platform through organic development and the acquisition of new products and features. We emphasize collaboration with customers throughout all areas of our organization in the development process. Our online Jive Community is made available to our customers and allows them to suggest, collaborate on and vote on new features and functionality. This input is utilized in many of our development plans and provides valuable customer insight that we use to establish the priorities of our engineering team. We also incorporate feedback from our employees, all of whom use our products daily and test alpha versions before each major release. We also focus our research and development efforts on rapidly delivering new products and upgrades of our existing products to our customers. We leverage open source technology wherever appropriate and contribute many of the improvements we make back to the community. We maintain healthy code and adhere to sound engineering practices to ensure a fast pace of development. We have teams dedicated to developing and testing innovative new products and users experiences, advancing our core architecture and improving the speed and completeness of our automated continuous integration pipeline. As of December 31, 2013, we had 217 employees in research and development. 10 Table of Contents Competition The overall market for social business platform solutions is rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We currently compete with large, well-established multi-solution enterprise software vendors, such as Microsoft and IBM, enterprise software application providers which are adding social features to their existing applications, such as salesforce.com, inc., and smaller specialized software vendors. Our primary competition for internal communities currently comes from established enterprise software companies that have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, much longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have and are able to provide comprehensive business solutions that are broader in scope than the solution we offer. Additionally, we compete with smaller companies who may adapt better to changing conditions in the market. Our primary competition for our JiveX external community solution comes from a smaller, privately held software vendor, Lithium Technologies. We expect that the competitive landscape will change as the market for social business platforms consolidates and matures. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: • total cost of ownership; • breadth and depth of product functionality; • brand awareness and reputation; • ease of deployment and use of solutions; • level of customization, configurability, security, scalability and reliability of solutions; • ability to innovate and respond to customer needs rapidly; • perceived return on investment through the use of social technologies; • size of customer base and level of user adoption; and • ability to integrate with legacy enterprise infrastructures and third-party applications. We believe that we compete favorably on the basis of these factors. Notwithstanding the fact that some of our competitors offer the basic versions of their products for free or as low-cost additions to other software suites, we have demonstrated that customers are willing to pay for the business value that our platform delivers. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, to a great extent, upon our ongoing performance in the areas of product development and customer support. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, contractors and consultants, and confidentiality agreements with third parties. We also rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, trade dress and domain name reservations to protect our intellectual property. We have only recently begun to implement a strategy to seek patent protections for our technology and processes. We pursue the registration of our domain names and trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. As of December 31, 2013, we had 14 pending U.S. patent applications. Circumstances outside our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other countries in which our products and solutions are distributed. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time-consuming and the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete and harm our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had 673 regular full-time employees, including 45 in hosting, 60 in support, 75 in professional services, 217 in research and development, 202 in sales and marketing and 74 in general and administrative roles. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Segments We sell a single platform, have one business activity and there are no segment managers who are held accountable for operations, operating results or plans for levels or components below the consolidated unit level. Accordingly, we have determined that we operate in a single reporting segment, software sales and services. For a discussion of revenues, operating profit or loss and total assets, please see Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Geographic Information See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Seasonality Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new billings and renewals. This pattern may be amplified over time if the number of customers with renewal dates occurring in the fourth quarter continues to increase. Furthermore, our quarterly sales cycles are frequently weighted toward the end of the quarter, with an increased volume of sales in the last few weeks of each quarter. The year-over-year compounding effect of this seasonality in billing patterns and overall new business and renewal activity causes the value of invoices that we generate in the fourth quarter to continually increase in proportion to our billings in the other three quarters of our fiscal year. Backlog See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Non-GAAP Key Metrics” for information regarding our backlog. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and other reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). We also make available, free of charge on our website at www.jivesoftware.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. You can inspect and copy our reports, proxy statements and other information filed with the SEC at the offices of the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of Public Reference Rooms. The SEC also maintains an Internet website at http://www.sec.gov/ where you can obtain most of our SEC filings. You can also obtain paper copies of these reports, without charge, by contacting Investor Relations at (646) 277-1251. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to our Business and Industry Our future growth is, in large part, dependent upon the widespread adoption of social business software by enterprises and it is difficult to forecast the rate at which this will happen. Social business software for enterprises remains at an early stage of technological and market development and the extent to which social business software will become widely adopted remains uncertain. It continues to remain difficult to predict customer adoption rates, customer demand for our platform, the future growth rate and size of this market and the entry of competitive solutions. Any expansion of the social business software market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value and benefits associated with social business software. If social business software does not achieve widespread adoption, or if there is a reduction in demand for social business software caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, it could result in lower billings, reduced renewal rates and decreased revenues and our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, mergers or consolidations among our customers could reduce the number of our customers and could adversely affect our revenues and billings. In particular, if our customers are acquired by entities that are not our customers, are customers of our competitors, or that use fewer of our solutions, or that have more favorable contract terms and choose to discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our platform, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot accurately predict new subscription, subscription renewal or upsell rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenues and operating results. In order for us to improve our operating results and continue to grow our business, it is important that we continually attract new customers and that existing customers renew their subscriptions with us when their existing contract term expires. Our existing customers have no contractual obligation to renew their subscriptions after the initial subscription period and we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, their satisfaction with our platform and our customer support, the level of usage of our platform within their enterprise, the frequency and severity of outages, our product uptime or latency, the pricing of our, or competing, software or professional services, the effects of global economic conditions, and reductions in spending levels or changes in our customers’ strategies regarding social collaboration tools. If our customers renew their subscriptions, they may renew for fewer users or page views, for shorter contract lengths or on other terms that are less economically beneficial to us. If customers enter into shorter initial subscription periods, the risk of customers not renewing their subscriptions with us would increase and our billings and revenues may be adversely impacted. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer renewals, so we may not accurately predict future renewal trends. We cannot assure you that our customers will renew their subscriptions, and if our customers do not renew their agreements or renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our billings may be adversely impacted. To the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we could incur increased losses because costs associated with generating customer agreements and performing services are generally incurred up front, while revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. This risk is particularly applicable for those customers who choose to deploy our platform in the public cloud. If new customers sign agreements with short initial subscription periods and do not renew their subscriptions, our operating results could be negatively impacted due to the upfront expenses associated with our sales and implementation efforts. Alternatively, to the extent we are unsuccessful in increasing our customer base, we could also incur increased losses as costs associated with marketing programs and new products intended to attract new customers would not be offset by future incremental revenues and cash flow. 13 Table of Contents In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our customers make additional significant purchases of our functionality and offerings, including additional communities, modules, users or page views or professional services. If our customers do not purchase additional functionality or offerings, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected. Additionally, increasing incremental sales to our current customer base requires increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. We also invest various resources targeted at expanding the utilization rates of our platform. There can be no assurance that our efforts would result in increased sales to existing customers, or upsells, and additional revenues. If our efforts to upsell to our customers are not successful, our business would suffer. Additionally, our quarterly sales cycles are frequently more heavily weighted toward the end of the quarter with an increased volume of sales in the last few weeks of the quarter. If this trend continues or becomes more exaggerated, it could negatively impact the timing of recognized revenues, cash collections and delivery of professional services in subsequent periods. Furthermore, the concentration of contract negotiations in the last few weeks of the quarter could require us to hire additional sales, legal and finance employees. Because we generally recognize revenues from subscriptions for our platform ratably over the term of the agreement, near term changes in sales may not be reflected immediately in our operating results. We generally recognize revenues from customers ratably over the term of their agreements, which generally range from 12 to 36 months. As a result, most of the revenues we report in each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters or years. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter is not likely to be reflected immediately in our revenues results for that quarter. Such declines, however, would negatively affect our revenues in future periods and the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our total revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. In some instances, our customers choose to pre-pay the entire term of their multi-year subscriptions up front. As a result, billings can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The market for social business software is still in its early stages of development and intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business would be harmed. The market for social business software is relatively new, highly competitive and rapidly evolving with new competitors entering the market. We expect the competitive landscape to continue to intensify in the future as a result of regularly evolving customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. We currently compete with large well-established multi-solution enterprise software vendors, stand-alone enterprise software application providers, and smaller software application vendors. Our primary competition for internal communities currently comes from large well-established enterprise software vendors such as Microsoft Corporation and IBM Corporation, both of which are significantly larger than we are, have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, much longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and are able to provide comprehensive business solutions that are broader in scope than the solutions we offer. These well-established vendors may have preexisting relationships with our existing and potential customers and to the extent our solutions are not viewed as being superior in features, function and integration or priced competitively to existing solutions, we might have difficulty displacing them. We also compete with stand-alone enterprise software applications that have begun adding social features to their existing offerings, including salesforce.com, inc. Some of these companies have large installed bases of active customers that may prefer to implement social business software solutions that are provided by an existing provider of customer management software, and these companies may be able to offer discounts 14 Table of Contents and other pricing incentives that make their solutions more attractive. For our external community business, we also compete with standalone software providers, such as Lithium Technologies, whose only product is focused on providing external communities to their customers. In addition, large social and professional networking providers with greater name recognition, financial resources and other resources may add social business applications to their existing applications, or our competitors may enter into strategic alliances with each other, resulting in increased competition. For example, in June 2012, Microsoft Corporation acquired Yammer, Inc., an early stage private company that provides social networking capabilities to enterprise customers, and, in June 2013, Oracle and salesforce.com announced a new strategic partnership to integrate their cloud applications. To the extent that our competitors are successful in combining these social networking capabilities with their existing products, we could experience increased competition, which could adversely affect our billings, revenues and margins. Some of our competitors offer their solutions at a lower price or at no cost, which has resulted in pricing pressures and increased competition. In addition, some potential customers, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal solutions. If we are unable to price our solutions appropriately, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, lower margins, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales and billings, losses or the failure of our platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. Certain current competitors have been, and current or potential competitors may be, acquired by third parties with greater available resources and as a result of such acquisitions, might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their solutions, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their offerings more quickly than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively for a share of our market, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly results are likely to fluctuate due to a number of factors, and the value of our stock could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate. For example, our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new billings and renewals. This pattern may be amplified over time if the number of customers with renewal dates occurring in the fourth quarter continues to increase. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results may be caused by a number of factors, many of which are out of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the renewal rates for our platform; • upsell rates for our solutions and services; • changes in deferred revenue balances due to changes in the average duration of subscriptions, rate of renewals, timing of renewal billings, composition of billings for professional services, amount of multi-year prepayments, amount of non-renewable perpetual license billings, and the rate of new business growth; • changes in the composition of current period billings; • changes in the mix of the average term length and payment terms; • order sizes in any given quarter; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business; • changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a response to competitive or other factors; • the cost and timing associated with, and management effort for, the introduction of new features to our platform; • the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force; • the length of the sales cycle for our platform; • changes in our go-to-market strategy; • the success of our international expansion strategy; • new solution introductions by our competitors; 15 Table of Contents • our success in selling our platform to large enterprises; • our success in selling into the IT department of our customers; • general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions or a larger deployment, or hinder or delay a prospective customer’s purchasing decision, or reduce the value of new subscriptions, or affect renewal rates or the timing of renewals; • timing of additional investments in the development of our platform or deployment of our services; • disruptions in our hosting services or our inability to meet service level agreements and any resulting refunds to customers; • security breaches and potential financial penalties to customers and government entities; • concerns over government-sponsored electronic surveillance activities; • purchases of new equipment and bandwidth in connection with our data center expansion; • regulatory compliance costs; • potential delay in revenue recognition for product acceptance rights; • the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; • the impact on services margins as a result of the use of third-party contractors to fulfill demand; • the impact on services margins as a result of periods of less than full utilization of our full-time services employees; • costs associated with acquisitions of companies and technologies; • potential goodwill impairment charges related to prior acquisitions; • the impact of capitalized research and development costs on current and future periods; • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments; • adjustments arising from future state and local sales tax examinations; • the impact of new accounting pronouncements; and • the timing and size of stock awards to employees. Based on the factors described above, we believe that our quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be indicative of future results. In addition, due to our evolving business model, the rapid pace of technological change, the unpredictability of the emerging market in which we participate, and potential fluctuations in future general economic and financial market conditions, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of growth. We plan our expense levels and investments on estimates of future billings, revenues and anticipated rate of growth. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if the addition of new customers, the upsell rate for existing customers, or the price for which we are able to sell our platform is below our expectations. As a result, we expect that our billings, revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate significantly and comparisons of our billings, revenues, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Furthermore, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and the market price for our common stock could decline. If one or more of the securities analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, the market price for our common stock could decline. Additionally, our stock price may be based on expectations, estimates or forecasts of our future performance that may be unrealistic or may not be achieved. Further, our stock price may be affected by financial media, including press reports and blogs. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our sales to customers outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We sell our platform primarily through our direct sales organization, which is comprised of inside sales and field sales personnel located in a variety of geographic regions, including the U.S., the Asia Pacific region, South America and Europe. Sales outside of the U.S. represented approximately 23%, 23% and 21% of our total revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As we continue to expand sales of our social business platform to customers located outside the U.S., our business will be increasingly 16 Table of Contents susceptible to risks associated with international operations. However, we have a limited operating history outside the U.S., and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally, particularly in new geographies, requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of diverse cultures, languages, customs, tax laws, legal systems, alternate dispute systems and regulatory systems. The risks and challenges associated with international expansion include: • continued localization of our platform, sales collateral and legal agreements, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • compliance with anti-bribery laws, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Anti-Bribery Act; • international customers’ potential reluctance to do business with U.S. companies who host content and data as a result of recent alleged surveillance activities by the United States National Security Administration; • regional data privacy laws that apply to the processing of personal information, particularly those focused on the transmission of our customers’ data across international borders; • ability to provide local hosting, consulting and support services; • different pricing environments, including invoicing and collecting in foreign currencies and associated foreign currency exposure; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and the increased travel, infrastructure, accounting, tax and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; • different or lesser protection of our intellectual property rights; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, longer payment cycles and other collection difficulties; • regional economic and political conditions; and • security concerns such as civil or military unrest and terrorist activities. Additionally, a substantial majority of our international customers currently pay us in U.S. dollars and, as a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our platform more expensive for international customers, which could harm our business. In the future, an increasing number of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies or pressure on the creditworthiness of sovereign nations, particularly in Europe, may negatively impact our business. If we are unable to successfully manage the challenges of international operations and expansion, our growth could be limited, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We may continue to acquire or invest in other companies or technologies in the future, which could divert management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. From January 2011 through December 31, 2013, we completed six acquisitions. We may, in the future, acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits of these or any future acquisition. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses related to identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. There are inherent risks in integrating and managing acquisitions. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to assimilate or integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; 17 Table of Contents • incurrence of acquisition-related costs, which would be recognized as a current period expense; • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition or investment costs; • the inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our platform and of maintaining quality standards consistent with our brand; • difficulty in incorporating new people; • delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition; • the need to implement additional controls, procedures and policies; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with currency and regulatory risks; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • harm to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; • the inability to recognize acquired revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policies, and the loss of acquired deferred revenue; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash or the incurrence of debt to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. Also, contingent considerations related to acquisitions will be remeasured to fair value at each reporting period, with any changes in the value recorded as income or expense. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on the impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. We have a history of cumulative losses and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses in each of the last six years, including a net loss of $75.4 million in 2013, $47.4 million in fiscal 2012 and $50.8 million in fiscal 2011. At December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $227.5 million. As we continue to invest in infrastructure, development of our solutions and international expansion of our sales and marketing efforts, our operating expenses will continue to increase. Additionally, to accommodate future growth, we have transitioned our customer data centers from third-party service providers to co-located facilities managed by our internal hosting operations team. This transition has required, and will continue to require, significant up-front capital expenditures and these costs and expenses may exceed the rate which realizes any associated incremental billings or revenues. As a result, our losses in future periods may be significantly greater than the losses we would incur if we developed our business more slowly. In addition, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that they may not result in increases in our revenues or billings or provide the gross margin improvements we anticipated. Although we have experienced revenue growth in prior periods, you should not consider any previous revenue growth or growth rates as indicative of our future performance. We do not expect to be profitable on a GAAP basis in the foreseeable future and we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, particularly with respect to large enterprises, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some of the more complex transactions, which could harm our business and operating results. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers, frequently at an executive level, about the use, potential return on investment, technical capabilities, security and other benefits of our platform. Customers often undertake a prolonged product-evaluation process which 18 Table of Contents frequently involves not only our solutions but also those of our competitors. As we continue to target our sales efforts at large enterprise customers, we will face greater costs, long sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. In this market segment, the customer’s decision to subscribe to our platform may be an enterprise-wide decision and, if so, may require us to provide even greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our platform and obtain support from multiple departments within larger enterprises, as well as obtain support from the IT departments. In addition, prospective enterprise customers may require customized features and functions unique to their business process and may require acceptance testing related to those unique features. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales support, and operational support, technical support and professional services resources to individual customers, increasing costs and time required to complete sales and diverting our own sales and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while potentially requiring us to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the acceptance requirements have been met. We recently completed the transition from third-party hosted data centers for our public cloud customers to our own managed facilities and such internally managed facilities expose us to additional risks which could result in operational inefficiencies, increase our costs and ultimately have a negative impact on our business. We recently completed the transition of our hosting services to internally managed hosting facilities in both the United States and Europe. These facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to employee negligence, break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of any of these disasters, or other unanticipated problems, could result in lengthy interruptions in our service, which would materially impact our customers’ use of our offerings and may result in financial penalties for which we will be directly and solely responsible. In addition, we are subject to other risks and challenges inherent in the fact that we are now managing the infrastructure that hosts our customer communities, including any failure to properly plan for our infrastructure capacity requirements and our inability to obtain and maintain the technologies and personnel necessary to cause the hosting services to operate efficiently and in accordance with our contractual commitments, including those pertaining to uptime and security. Furthermore, the transition to internally managed facilities has required, and continues to require, significant up front capital expenditures for equipment and infrastructure, as well as increased personnel expense. Additionally, to the extent that we are required to add data center capacity to accommodate customer demands for additional bandwidth or storage to enable their communities, we may need to significantly increase the bandwidth, storage, power or other elements of our hosting operations, and the costs associated with adjustments to our data center architecture could also negatively affect our margins and operating results. Interruptions or delays in our service as a result of a variety of factors could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. The availability of our platform could be interrupted by a number of factors, including disaster events at our hosting facilities, our customers’ inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems due to human or other error, security breaches or inability of the infrastructure to handle spikes in customer usage. We may be required to issue credits or refunds or indemnify or otherwise be liable to customers or third parties for damages that may occur resulting from certain of these events. For example, in January 2011, we experienced a hosting outage, which impacted some of our customers for up to 14 hours. More recently, in late December 2013, we experienced a significant hosting outage, which impacted several of our U.S. customers for up to 11.5 hours. As a result of these outages, we provided service credits to certain customers. Service credits provided to date have not been material, both individually and in the aggregate. If we experience similar outages in the future, we may experience customer dissatisfaction, the termination of customer contracts, potential contract liability, and potential loss of confidence, which could harm our reputation and impact future revenues from these customers. 19 Table of Contents A rapid expansion of our business could cause our network or systems to fail. In the future, we may need to expand our hosting operations at a more rapid pace than we have in the past, spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment, upgrade our technology and infrastructure to handle increased customer demand and introduce new solutions. For example, if we secure a large customer or a group of customers which require significant amounts of bandwidth, storage or computing power to enable their community, we may need to increase bandwidth, storage, server deployments, electrical power or other elements of our hosting operations and our existing systems may not be able to scale in a manner satisfactory to our existing or prospective customers. In addition, our sales expansion strategies in Asia and Latin America may require us to set up or partner with hosting providers in those regions, and we may have to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease new data centers and equipment. Any such expansion could be expensive and complex and result in inefficiencies or operational failures and could reduce our margins. If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, customers may reduce the use of or stop using our solutions and we may incur significant liabilities. Our hosting operations involve the storage and transmission of customer data. Security breaches or unauthorized access to customer data that we host could result in the misuse or loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations, regulatory fines and penalties and other liabilities. Many of our customer and partner contracts provide that we assume full responsibility and will indemnify our customers for data privacy or security breaches or unauthorized access of customer data. If such a breach occurs, we could face contractual damages, damages and fees arising from our indemnification obligations, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, possible lawsuits by affected individuals and significant remediation costs and efforts to prevent future occurrences. In addition, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our security, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed significantly and we could lose current or potential customers. While we and our vendors have security measures in place, these systems and networks are subject to ongoing threats and, therefore, these security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including cyber attacks or other intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, failure to implement appropriate processes and procedures, malfeasance or otherwise. This could result in one or more third parties obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including personally identifiable information, intellectual property and other confidential business information. Third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers’ data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information. Our hosting, support and professional services personnel sometimes must access customer communities to fulfill our contractual obligations to provide these services to our customers. This access may result in exposure to confidential customer data and personally-identifiable information that is stored within our platform. If our personnel or our software systems were to permit unauthorized loss or access to this data by a third party, our reputation could be damaged and we could incur significant liability. Additionally, while our platform is not intended for the transmission or storage of credit card data, sensitive health, personal account or financial information and we contractually prohibit our customers from doing so, neither we nor our suppliers monitor or review the content that our customers upload and store within their communities. Therefore, we have no direct control over the substance or use of the content within our hosted communities. If customers use our platform for the transmission or storage of sensitive health, credit card, personal account or financial information and our security measures are breached our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability as many domestic and international laws place a higher burden of care on organizations that transmit and process this type of information. 20 Table of Contents Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or mitigation measures. Any or all of these issues could negatively impact our ability to attract new customers and increase engagement by existing customers, cause existing customers to elect to not renew their subscriptions, subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, thereby harming our reputation and our operating results. In addition, through the APIs we make available to our technology partners and our add-on modules, our customers may obtain third-party applications which access the data stored within their community. Because we do not control the transmissions between our customers and these third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal and financial liability and negatively impact our future sales. Because our platform could be used to collect and store personal information of our customers’ employees or customers, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit sales of our platform. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States and in many other countries where we offer our solutions. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, disclosure, control and deletion of personal information. In the United States, these include, without limitation, rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 and state breach notification laws. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we and our customers must comply. Many of these obligations are frequently updated and require ongoing supervision. These include the Data Protection Directive established in the European Union, the Federal Data Protection Act recently passed in Germany and the European Directive 2002/58/EC (commonly known as the “EU Cookie Law”) and the Personal Data Protection Ordinance recently promulgated in Hong Kong. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the technological features of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our software, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our platform. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our platform particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. For instance, the recent publicity in the United States and abroad regarding the alleged surveillance activities of the United States National Security Administration may cause our current and prospective customers to require additional information regarding our data disclosure policies which may elongate our sales cycles, require us to make additional contractual commitments, assume additional liabilities or cause potential customers to abandon planned purchases. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. We have experienced significant growth in recent periods. For example, we have grown from 527 employees at December 31, 2012 to 673 at December 31, 2013 and we have acquired six companies since January 2011. This growth has placed, and any future growth may place, a significant strain on our management and operational infrastructure, including our hosting operations and enterprise resource planning system. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage these changes effectively. We will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures, which may include the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system in the future. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties. Any failure to effectively manage growth could adversely impact our business and reputation. Changes in laws and/or regulations related to the Internet or related to privacy and data security concerns or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may cause our business to suffer. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the transmission of certain types of content using the Internet. For example, the State of California has adopted legislation requiring operators of commercial websites and mobile applications that collect personal information from California residents to conspicuously post and comply with privacy policies that satisfy certain requirements. Several other U.S. states have adopted legislation requiring companies to protect the security of personal information that they collect from consumers over the Internet, and more states may adopt similar legislation in the future. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission has used its authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to bring actions against companies for failing to maintain adequate security for personal information collected from consumers over the Internet and for failing to comply with privacy-related representations made to Internet users. The U.S. Congress has at various times proposed federal legislation intended to protect the privacy of Internet users and the security of personal information collected from Internet users that would impose additional compliance burdens upon companies collecting personal information from Internet users, and the U.S. Congress may adopt such legislation in the future. The European Union also has adopted various directives regulating data privacy and security and the transmission of content using the Internet involving residents of the European Union, including those directives known as the Data Protection Directive, the E-Privacy Directive, and the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive, and may adopt similar directives in the future. Several other countries, including Canada and several Latin American and Asian countries, have constitutional protections for, or have adopted legislation protecting, individuals’ personal information. Additionally, some federal, state, or foreign governmental bodies have established laws which seek to censor the transmission of certain types of content over the Internet or require that individuals be provided with the ability to permanently delete all electronic personal information, such as the German Multimedia Law of 1997. Given the variety of global privacy and data protection regimes, it is possible we may find ourselves subject to inconsistent obligations. For instance, the USA Patriot Act is considered by some to be in conflict with certain directives of the European Union. Situations such as these require that we make prospective determinations regarding compliance with conflicting regulations. Increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations, as well as any laws, regulations or changes that may be adopted or implemented in the future, could limit the growth of the use of public cloud applications or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications such as our public cloud solutions, require implementation of additional technological safeguards and reduce the demand for our social business software platform. Additionally, due to the complexity and diversity of these laws, our customers often include contractual obligations which can impose significant risk of termination and financial penalties if we fail to comply. 22 Table of Contents If we are not able to develop and introduce enhancements and new features that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with technological developments, our business could be harmed. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry and legal standards. The introduction of new social business software solutions by our competitors, the market acceptance of solutions based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards could render our platform obsolete. Our ability to compete successfully, attract new customers and increase revenues from existing customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing social business software platform and to continually introduce or acquire new features that are in demand by the market we serve. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on several factors, including timely completion and integration, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new platform or feature that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are unable to anticipate or timely and successfully develop or acquire new offerings or features or enhance our existing platform to meet customer requirements, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Additionally, for technologies that are acquired, we may not be able to successfully integrate or monetize the acquired technology at a rate that is consistent with the market’s expectations. Our platform must integrate with a variety of operating systems, software applications and hardware that are developed by others and, if we are unable to devote the necessary resources to ensure that our solutions interoperate with such software and hardware, we may fail to increase, or we may lose, market share and we may experience a weakening demand for our platform. Our social business software platform must integrate with a variety of network, hardware and software platforms, including Microsoft Office, and we will need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our platform, result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business. If we are unable to respond in a timely manner to these changes in a cost-effective manner, our solutions may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be negatively impacted. In addition, an increasing number of individuals within the enterprise are utilizing devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and other handheld devices, to access the Internet and corporate resources and conduct business. If we cannot effectively make our platform available on these mobile devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a single software platform. We derive a substantial portion of our total revenues from sales of a single software platform, the Jive Platform, and related modules. As such, any factor adversely affecting sales of this platform, including product release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, and economic and market conditions, could harm our business and operating results. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with our implementation, customization or other professional services we provide. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers and meet our customers’ business needs. If a customer is not satisfied with the type of solutions and professional services we or our partners deliver, we could incur additional costs to remedy the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customer’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional services from that customer or our ability to renew that customer’s subscription in subsequent periods. If we are not able to accurately estimate the cost of services requested by the customer, it might result in providing services on a discounted basis or free of charge until customer satisfaction is achieved. In addition, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers. Further, we have customer payment obligations not yet due that are attributable to software we have already delivered. These customer obligations are typically not cancelable, but will not yield the expected revenues and cash flow if the customer defaults and fails to pay amounts owed, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and operating results. 23 Table of Contents Additionally, large enterprises may request or require customized features and functions unique to their particular business processes. If prospective large customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer, then the market for our platform will be more limited and our business could suffer. If a large enterprise contract requires customized features and functions, we cannot recognize any revenue related to the entire contract until the customized features and functions have been delivered to the customer. In addition, supporting large enterprise customers could require us to devote significant development services and support personnel and strain our personnel resources and infrastructure. If we are unable to address the needs of these customers in a timely fashion or further develop and enhance our platform, these customers may not renew their subscriptions, seek to terminate their relationship, renew on less favorable terms or fail to purchase additional features. If any of these were to occur, our revenues and billings may decline and we may not realize significantly improved operating results. We might experience significant errors or security flaws in our platform. Despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities, especially when initially introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our platform could affect the ability of our platform to work with other hardware or software products, impact functionality and delay the development or release of new solutions or new versions of solutions and adversely affect market acceptance of our platform. The detection and correction of any bugs or security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Some errors in our platform and related solutions may only be discovered after installation and use by customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered after commercial release or contained in custom implementations could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers or increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our platform has contained and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that could result in data unavailability, data security breaches, data loss or corruption or other harm to our customers. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our platform could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our solutions, result in unauthorized access to customer data, or fraudulently induce individuals to provide their log-in credentials. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our platform could result in contractual or regulatory liability, harm our reputation and lead some customers to cancel subscriptions, reduce or delay future purchases or use competitive solutions. Failure to adequately expand and retain our direct sales force will impede our growth. We will need to continue to expand and optimize our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to invest in our direct sales force, both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them in the use of our platform require significant time, expense and attention. It can take 9 to 12 months or longer before our newly trained sales representatives are fully trained and productive. Our business may be harmed if our efforts to expand and train our direct sales force do not generate a corresponding significant increase in billings and revenues. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of this investment or increase our billings and revenues or grow our business. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. Our future growth will depend on our ability to enter into successful strategic relationships with third parties. For example, we are investing resources in building our indirect sales channel by establishing relationships with third parties to facilitate incremental sales and to implement and customize our platform. In addition, we are also establishing relationships with other third parties to develop integrations with compatible technology and content. These relationships may not result in additional customers or enable us to generate significant billings or revenues. Identifying partners as well as negotiating and 24 Table of Contents documenting relationships with them requires significant time and resources. Our agreements for these relationships are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit the other party from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues and billings could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. In particular, leveraging third-party reseller and referral partner relationships is important to our strategy to expand our presence in the Latin America and Asia Pacific regions. If these relationships are not successful it could impede our growth in revenues and billings. Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our platform. Our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under “open source” licenses. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses contain provisions that require attribution or that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software used. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public at no cost. This would allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in an adverse impact upon our intellectual property rights and ability to commercialize our products. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our products will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our products, to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We, or our customers, may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement or misuse of their intellectual property. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Recently, a number of large software, technology and social networking companies have become active in initiating litigation against competitors and other third parties for misuse of these rights. Additionally, within the United States in particular, non-practicing entities have significantly increased their activities of pursuing patent litigation against technology companies and their customers. As a result, companies such as Jive are increasingly required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. As a result, our success depends upon our not infringing upon or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own confidential information or certain intellectual property. From time to time, third parties have claimed and may claim that we infringe upon or have misappropriated their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon or misappropriating such rights. In the future, we, or our customers, may be the subject of claims that our platform, underlying technology or our actions in connection therewith infringe, misappropriate or violate the intellectual property rights of others. As a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our solutions, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary 25 Table of Contents to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results. As most of our customer and partner agreements obligate us to provide indemnification in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our platform, or refund fees, we have in the past been, and may in the future be, requested to indemnify our customers and business partners which could expose us to significant legal and financial liability. We expect that the occurrence of infringement claims is likely to grow as the market for social business software grows. Accordingly, our exposure to damages resulting from infringement claims could be increased and this could further exhaust our financial and management resources. For example, in October 2012, Bascom Research, LLC (“Bascom”) filed a complaint for patent infringement against us, among others, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, captioned Bascom Research, LLC v. Jive Software, Inc., Civil Case No. 1:12CV1114. In May 2013, we entered into a settlement and license agreement with Bascom. The cost of such settlement was consistent with amounts accrued for settlement and was not material to our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The outcome of any litigation, regardless of its merits, is inherently uncertain. Any intellectual property claim or lawsuit could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention from executing our business plan and require us to change our technology, change our business practices and/or pay monetary damages or enter into short- or long-term royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, in certain circumstances, such as those in which the opposing parties are large and well-funded companies, we may face a more expensive and protracted path to resolution of such claims or lawsuits. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We primarily rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions with our employees, customers, partners and others to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or we may be unable to secure intellectual property protection for all of our solutions. In particular, we have only recently begun to implement a strategy to seek patent protection for our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure these actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology, and our business and operating results might be harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights might entail significant expense and the diversion of management resources. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective protection of our intellectual property may not be available to us in every country in which our solutions are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Additionally, in the United States, the central provisions of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (AIA) became effective on March 16, 2013. Among other things, this law has switched U.S. patent rights from prior “first-to-invent” system to the present “first inventor-to-file” system. This may result in inventors and companies having to file patent applications more frequently to preserve rights in their inventions. This may favor larger competitors that have the resources to file more patent applications. 26 Table of Contents We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, and could ultimately result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations in ways that may be hard to predict or defend against. Our overall performance depends in part on domestic and worldwide economic conditions, which may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or to our industry may adversely affect us over the course of time. The U.S. and other key international economies, particularly Europe, have been impacted by threatened sovereign defaults and ratings downgrades, falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, going concern threats to major multinational companies, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty. These conditions and their continued deterioration, particularly in Europe, affect the rate of information technology spending and have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our social business software platform, and could delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions, or affect renewal rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the economic recovery or any subsequent economic slowdown, worldwide, in the United States, or in our industry. Sequestration or other actions by the U.S. Government resulting in significant cuts in U.S. Government spending could adversely affect our sales and future results. The Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Control Act), which raised the U.S. national debt ceiling and put into effect a series of actions for deficit reduction, triggered automatic reductions in U.S. Government spending, known as “sequestration,” beginning in 2013. While Congress and the Administration continue to debate how the nation should proceed on these issues, that debate has had, and could continue to have, a significant impact on future U.S. Government spending plans, including the overall spending on social business software, including our platform, by the various agencies of the U.S. Government. Our sales and future results may be adversely impacted by reductions in U.S. Government spending as a result of any sequestration or future government budget issues. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Our corporate headquarters are located in Palo Alto, California, a high portion of our technology and services personnel are located in our Portland, Oregon office, and we have transitioned our United States data centers to a co-located facility located along the west coast of the United States. The West Coast, and California in particular, are active earthquake zones. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing, operational, support, hosted services and sales activities. In the event of a major earthquake or catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber attack, war or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our corporate operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, contractual and financial liabilities, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could harm our future operating results. Although we back up customer data stored on our systems at least daily to a geographically distinct location, the data is not mirrored in real-time to this site. Thus, in the event of a physical disaster, or certain other failures of our computing infrastructure, customer data from very recent transactions may be permanently lost. Further, our full production infrastructure is not mirrored to a geographically distinct location and thus in the event of a disaster, production capacity may be impacted for an extended amount of time while the infrastructure is procured and rebuilt and data is restored. 27 Table of Contents We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited, and our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. The forecasts of market growth included in this document may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the markets in which we compete achieve the forecasted growth, we cannot assure you our business will grow at similar rates, if at all. Growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates which may not prove to be accurate. Forecasts relating to the expected growth in the social business software market and other markets may prove to be inaccurate. Even if these markets experience the forecasted growth, we may not grow our business at similar rates, or at all. Our growth is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. There are limitations on the effectiveness of controls and the failure of our control systems may materially and adversely impact us. We do not expect that disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially and adversely impact us. The intended operational and tax benefits of our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements depend on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and how we operate our business, and may be challenged by tax authorities. Our corporate structure and intercompany agreements with our foreign subsidiaries are intended to optimize our operating structure and our worldwide effective tax rate, including the manner in which we develop and use our intellectual property, manage our cash flow, and the pricing of our intercompany transactions. Our foreign subsidiaries operate under cost plus transfer pricing agreements with us. These agreements provide for sales, support and development activities for our benefit. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing technology or our transfer pricing arrangements, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax objectives, which could increase our international tax exposure and harm our operating results. For example, from May 2012 through June 30, 2013, we were under a United States federal tax examination for the tax years ending December 31, 2010 and 2011. Such examinations ended on June 13, 2013 and did not have a material financial impact. At December 31, 2013, we were not under exam in the United States or in any foreign jurisdictions. 28 Table of Contents We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key employees or groups could harm our business and prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers, which includes key leadership in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and the general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. For example, in February 2014 we announced the departure of our President of WorldWide Field Operations. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing development personnel because of the complexity of our platform and other solutions. Our personnel do not have employment arrangements that require these personnel to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees or groups could seriously harm our business. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our operations and growing customer base. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain talent. In the software industry and in the San Francisco Bay Area especially, there is substantial and continuous competition for software engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the value of our stock does not increase or declines, it may adversely affect our ability to retain highly skilled employees. In addition, since we expense all stock-based compensation, we may periodically change our stock compensation practices, which may include reducing the number of employees eligible for options or reducing the size of equity awards granted per employee. If the anticipated value of such stock-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our stock-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical component to our success has been our corporate culture. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team. As we continue to grow and develop the infrastructure associated with being a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders. If a proxy contest with respect to election of our directors is initiated in the future by any activist stockholder, or if other activist stockholder activities occur, our business could be adversely affected because: • responding to a proxy contest and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees; 29 Table of Contents • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction caused by activist activities may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and • if individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plans. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market on which our common stock trades and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly now that we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the recently enacted Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses. Since we had previously qualified as an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, we were able to take advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies. These exemptions included not being required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We are no longer able to take advantage of these exemptions, as, on December 31, 2013, we lost our status as an “emerging growth company.” Our inability to continue to take advantage of these exemptions may place additional strain on our resources and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We also expect that the combination of being a public company and the existence of these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers as well as qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee and Compensation Committee. 30 Table of Contents We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner, or our internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, we are no longer an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act. As a result, we are now required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Complying with Section 404 requires a rigorous compliance program as well as adequate time and resources. We may not be able to complete our internal control evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. Additionally, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to attest to management’s report on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Risk Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could subject us to litigation. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the market price of our common stock include: • variations in our billings, renewal rates, operating results, cash flow, loss per share and how these results compare to analyst expectations; • the net increase in the number of customers acquired, either independently or as compared with published expectations of analysts that cover us; • forward looking guidance on billings, revenues, cash flows and loss per share; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • disruptions in our public cloud service; • changes in the executive management team; • the economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry, and the industries of our customers; and • any other factors discussed herein. In addition, if the market for technology stocks, especially social media related stocks, or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price for our stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been subject of securities litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; 31 Table of Contents • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our president, our secretary, or a majority vote of our board of directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the issuance of preferred stock and management of our business or our amended and restated bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquiror to affect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; • the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquiror to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and • advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 