ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our continuing relationship with Ocwen may inhibit our ability to obtain and retain other customers that compete with Ocwen. As of December 31, 2013, our Chairman owns or controls more than 13% of Ocwen’s common stock and 26% of our common stock. We derived 65% of our 2013 revenue from Ocwen and its subsidiaries. Given this close and continuing relationship with Ocwen, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining and retaining other customers who compete with Ocwen. Should these and other potential customers view Altisource as part of Ocwen or as too closely related to or dependent upon Ocwen, they may be unwilling to utilize our services, and our growth could be inhibited as a result. We are dependent on a certain key customer relationship, the loss of which or reduction in the size of which could affect our business and results of operations. We currently generate approximately 65% of our revenue from Ocwen and its subsidiaries. Ocwen is contractually obligated to purchase certain services from our Mortgage Services, Financial Services and Technology Services segments under service agreements that extend through August 2025 subject to termination under certain provisions. The loss of Ocwen as a customer or their failure to pay us would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, Ocwen has grown significantly in recent years through acquisitions of mortgage servicing rights and acquisitions of companies with mortgage servicing rights and mortgage origination platforms. As a result of Ocwen’s growth, we have grown. If Ocwen does not continue to acquire mortgage 9 Table of Contents servicing rights or does not grow its mortgage origination business, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Significant regulatory scrutiny of foreclosure practices of the servicing industry has resulted in settlements between banks and servicers and government entities, on-going monitoring of banks and servicers by regulatory authorities, investigations of banks and servicers and private lawsuits. If Ocwen were to be negatively impacted in a significant way by this regulatory scrutiny or other actions, Altisource’s business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. We have key customer relationships, other than Ocwen, the loss of which could affect our business and results of operations. While no individual client, other than Ocwen, represents more than 10% of our consolidated revenue, we are exposed to customer concentration. Most of our customers are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historical levels or at all. The loss of any of these key customers or their failure to pay us could reduce our revenue and adversely affect results of operations. The strength of the economy and the housing market can affect demand for our services. The performance and growth of our origination services business is dependent on the volume of loan originations by third parties. In the event of an economic slowdown, increase in interest rates or any other factor that would likely lead to a decrease in the level of origination transactions, including refinancing transactions, our origination services growth prospects could be adversely affected. Further, in the event that adverse economic conditions or other factors lead to a decline in levels of home ownership and a reduction in the aggregate number of United States mortgage loans outstanding, our revenues from our software applications could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to substantial competition. The markets for our services are very competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. We compete for existing and new customers against both third parties and the in-house capabilities of our customers. Some of our competitors have substantial resources and some have widely used technology platforms which they seek to use as a competitive advantage to drive sales of other products and services. In addition, we expect the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. These new technologies may render our existing technologies obsolete, resulting in operating inefficiencies and increased competitive pressure. There can be no assurance we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them or challenges to our right to use them could reduce the value of our services or increase our costs. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets. The efforts we have taken to protect these proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property or significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, make it more expensive to do business or hurt our ability to compete. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. Changes in patent law, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, can also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. 10 Table of Contents Further, as our technology solutions and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims by others. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could: · be expensive and time-consuming to defend; · cause us to cease making, licensing or using technology solutions that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign our technology solutions, if feasible; · divert management’s attention and resources and/or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Technology failures or defects, development delays or installation difficulties could damage our business operations and increase our costs. Disruptions, failures or defects in our technology or delays in the development of, or installation difficulties with, our next generation technology may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers. Any sustained and repeated disruptions in these services may have an adverse impact on our and our customers’ results of operations. As part of our business and operation of our technology, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit confidential and sensitive business information of our customers. In addition, we collect personal consumer data such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver’s license numbers and payment history records. The secure transmission of this information over the Internet is essential to maintaining consumer confidence. Security breaches and acts of vandalism could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect our customers’ business and personal information and transaction data and could result in the assessment of penalties or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. Furthermore, Congress or individual states could enact new laws regulating electronic commerce that could adversely affect us and our results of operations. We have a long sales cycle for many of our services and technology solutions and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may experience a long sales cycle for developing certain services. We may expend significant time and resources in pursuing a particular service or customer that does not generate revenue. In addition, many of our services in the Technology Services segment are based on sophisticated software and computing systems with long sales cycles. We may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. We may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. Further, defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, loss of customers, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle or costs incurred that do not result in sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, and failure to comply with existing or new regulations may adversely impact us. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities including the FTC, the CFPB, the SEC and the state and local agencies that license or oversee certain of our mortgage related services, including insurance services, and collection services. We also must comply with a number of federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, RESPA, TILA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the California Homeowner’s Bill of Rights, the SAFE Act, the Mortgage Act and the FCPA. These requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations are enacted, promulgated or amended. 11 Table of Contents The ongoing economic uncertainty and troubled housing market have resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of all participants involved in the mortgage industry. This scrutiny has included federal and state governmental agency review of all aspects of the mortgage lending and servicing industries, including an increased legislative and regulatory focus on consumer protection practices. One such enacted regulation is the Dodd-Frank Act (see further description in the “Government Regulation” section in Item 1 of Part I, “Business”). In some cases, penalties for noncompliance are significantly increased and could lead to settlements or consent orders on us, or our customers, that may curtail or restrict our business as it is currently conducted. We are subject to certain additional federal, state and local consumer protection regulations. We also are subject to licensing and regulation as a mortgage services provider, mortgage origination underwriter, valuation provider, appraisal management company, asset manager, property manager, title insurance agency, other insurance related services, agent and provider, real estate broker and/or debt collector in a number of states. We are subject to audits and examinations that are conducted by the states in which we do business. Our employees and subsidiaries may be required to be licensed by various state commissions for the particular type of service sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. From time to time, we receive requests from state and other agencies for records, documents and information regarding our policies, procedures and practices for our mortgage services and debt collection business activities. We incur significant ongoing costs to comply with governmental regulations. As a result of increased federal and state governmental scrutiny of the mortgage industry, legislation has been enacted to address the mortgage market, with particular focus on loans that are in default. In addition, national servicing standards have been implemented that, among other things, require very specific loan modification and foreclosure procedures to be followed. This legislation and these standards have further reduced the number of loans entering the foreclosure process and have negatively impacted our default services revenue and profit. It is unclear when or if volumes will increase in the future. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict mortgage services activities. If regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with such requirements which could further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations can possibly lead to civil and criminal liability, loss of licensure, damage to our reputation in the industry, fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could harm our results of operations or financial condition. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from their customers that apply to the financial institutions themselves. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to lawsuits or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, the adoption of more restrictive privacy laws or rules in the future on the federal or state level could have an adverse impact on us by increasing our costs or requiring changes in our services. Our customers are subject to government regulation, requiring our customers to, among other things, oversee their vendors and maintain documentation that demonstrates their oversight. If our performance does not meet our customers’ standards, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our customers are subject to a variety of government regulations, including those promulgated by the CFPB. Certain regulations require our customers to oversee their vendors and document the procedures performed to demonstrate that oversight. Altisource, as a vendor, is subject to oversight by our customers. If we do not meet the standards established by our customers or if any other oversight procedures result in a negative outcome for Altisource, we may lose customers or may no longer be granted referrals for certain services, negatively impacting our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We rely on third party vendors for many aspects of our business. If our vendor oversight process is ineffective or we face difficulties managing our relationships with third party vendors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on third party vendors to provide goods and services in relation to many aspects of our operations. Our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to perform adequately under our contracts with them. In addition, where a vendor provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a client, we are responsible for such performance and could be held accountable by the client for any failure of performance by our vendors. We evaluate the competency and solvency of our third party vendors. Additionally, we perform ongoing vendor oversight activities to identify any performance or other issues related to these vendors. If a vendor fails to provide the services that we require or expect, or fails to meet contractual requirements, such as service levels or compliance with applicable laws, the failure could negatively impact our business by adversely affecting our ability to serve our customers and/or subjecting us to litigation and regulatory risk for ineffective vendor oversight. Such a failure could adversely affect the reliability and quality of the services we provide our customers and could adversely affect our results of operations. If financial institutions at which we hold escrow and trust funds fail, it could have a material adverse impact on our company. We hold customers’ assets in escrow and trust accounts at various financial institutions, pending completion of certain real estate activities. We also hold cash in trust accounts at various financial institutions where contractual obligations mandate maintaining dedicated bank accounts for Financial Services collections. These amounts are held in escrow and trust accounts for limited periods of time and are not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We may become liable for funds owed to third parties as a result of the failure of one or more of these financial institutions, and there is no guarantee we would recover the funds deposited, whether through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation coverage, private insurance or otherwise. We may be subject to claims of legal violations or wrongful conduct which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or modify our products or processes. From time to time, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings that claim legal violations or wrongful conduct. These lawsuits may involve clients, our clients’ customers, vendors, competitors and/or other large groups of plaintiffs and, if resulting in findings of violations, could result in substantial damages. Alternatively, we may be forced to settle some claims out of court and change existing company practices, services and processes that are currently revenue generating. This could lead to unexpected costs or a loss of revenue. Our debt makes us more sensitive to the effects of economic change; our level of debt and provisions in our debt agreements could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. Our debt makes us more vulnerable to changes in our results of operations because a portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to servicing our debt and is not available for other purposes. Additionally, increases in interest rates will negatively impact our cash flows as the interest on our debt is variable. The provisions of our debt agreement could have other negative consequences to us including the following: · limiting our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditure, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations, our business or the industry in which we compete and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to invest in the business. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing or sell assets. This may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Without any such financing, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall 13 Table of Contents in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. If necessary, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations. In addition, our debt agreement contains covenants that limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry including limitations on incurring additional indebtedness, making investments, granting liens and merging or consolidating with other companies. Complying with these covenants may impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreement, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Our debt agreement requires us to comply with various operational, reporting and other covenants that limit us from engaging in certain types of transactions. If there were an event of default under our debt agreement that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flows would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated, upon an event of default or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt instruments. Our failure to maintain certain debt to EBITDA ratios contained in our debt agreement could result in required payments to the lenders of a percentage of our excess cash flow, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to use our excess cash flow for other purposes. Our debt agreement requires us to distribute 50% of our excess cash flow, as defined in the debt agreement, if our debt to EBITDA ratio exceeds 3.50 to 1.00 and 25% of our excess cash flow if our debt to EBITDA ratio is 3.50 to 1.00 or less, but greater than 2.75 to 1.00. If we were required to distribute a portion of our excess cash flow to our lenders, we may be limited in our ability to grow our business through acquisitions or investments in technology and we may be limited in our ability to repurchase our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will maintain debt to EBITDA ratios at levels that will not require us to distribute a portion of our excess cash flow to lenders. Risks Related to our Growth Strategy Our ability to grow is affected by our ability to retain and expand our existing client relationships and our ability to attract new customers. Our ability to retain existing customers and expand those relationships and attract new customers is subject to a number of risks including the risk that we do not: · maintain or improve the compliance and quality of services we provide to our customers; · meet or exceed the expectations of our customers; · successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services and · attract other servicers and non-distressed home sellers as new customers. If our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new customers do not prove effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to grow our operations. Our ability to expand existing relationships and attract new customers is also affected by broader economic factors and the strength of the overall housing market, which can reduce demand for our services and increase competition for each customer’s business. See “The strength of the economy and the housing market can affect demand for our services.” 14 Table of Contents If we do not adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology and particularly our efforts to complete development of our next generation technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. The markets for our services are characterized by constant technological change, frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry standards. We are currently in the process of developing and introducing our next generation technology. Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to complete our current efforts and in the future enhance, primarily through use of automation, econometrics and behavioral science principles, our services and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their customers. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort including cost overruns, delays in delivery and performance effectiveness. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands or completing the development of our next generation technology. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these services. Finally, our services and their enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Any of these results would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to grow our operations. Our growth objectives are dependent on the timing and market acceptance of our new service offerings. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in service development or the inability to gain market acceptance of new services to existing and new customers. There are no guarantees that new services will prove to be commercially successful. Our business is dependent on the trend towards outsourcing. Our continued growth at historical rates is dependent on the industry trend towards outsourced services. There can be no assurance this trend will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services themselves or may be prevented from outsourcing services. A significant change in this trend could have a materially adverse effect on our continued growth. Our strategy to make acquisitions to accelerate growth initiatives involves potential risks. During 2013, we acquired fee-based businesses from Ocwen and acquired Equator. We intend to continue to consider acquisitions of other businesses that could complement our business. In addition to considering acquisitions that could offer us greater access in our current markets, we also consider acquisitions of entities offering greater access and expertise in other asset types and markets that are related to ours but we do not currently serve. As we acquire businesses, we may face a number of risks including a loss of focus on our daily operations, the need for additional management, constraints on operating resources, constraints on financial resources from integration and system conversion costs, the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition relationships with customers, suppliers and employees and other integration risks. Moreover, any acquisition may result in the incurrence of additional amortization expense of related intangible assets which could reduce our profitability. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits we expect from the continued relationship with Residential following the Separation of the Residential Asset Businesses. We may not be able to fully achieve the strategic and financial benefits we expect from our relationship with Residential following the Separation of the Residential Asset Businesses, or such benefits may be delayed. These outcomes may occur if, among other things, Residential is not successful in fully executing its strategy to acquire non-performing loan portfolios with a portion of the portfolios converting to single family rental assets or if Residential is not successful in continuing to raise equity and debt to support its growth. Risks Related to International Business Our international operations subject us to additional risks which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We have reduced our operating expenses by utilizing lower cost labor in foreign countries such as India and the Philippines. As of December 31, 2013, 5,895 of our employees were based in India and the Philippines. These countries are subject to relatively higher degrees of political and social instability and may lack the infrastructure to withstand political unrest or natural disasters. Such disruptions can decrease efficiency and increase our costs in these countries. Weakness of the United States dollar in relation to the currencies used in these foreign countries may also reduce the savings achievable through this strategy. Furthermore, the practice of utilizing labor based in foreign countries has come under increased scrutiny in the United States and, as a result, some of our customers may require us to use labor based in the United States. We may not be able to pass on the increased costs of higher-priced United States-based labor to our customers which ultimately could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the FCPA. Any violations of the FCPA or local anti-corruption laws by us, our subsidiaries or our local agents, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation and result in substantial financial penalties or other sanctions. Any political or economic instability in these countries could result in our having to replace or reduce these labor sources which may increase our labor costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Altisource is a Luxembourg company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against it or its directors and executive officers. Altisource is a public limited company organized under the laws of Luxembourg. As a result, Luxembourg law and the articles of incorporation govern the rights of shareholders. The rights of shareholders under Luxembourg law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A significant portion of the assets of Altisource are located outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce, in the United States, judgments obtained in United States courts against Altisource or its directors based on the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws or to enforce, in Luxembourg, judgments obtained in other jurisdictions including the United States. A significant change of the Luxembourg tax regime or of its interpretation by the Luxembourg tax authorities could adversely affect our results of operations. Altisource is organized under the laws of, and headquartered in, Luxembourg. This allows Altisource to benefit from a favorable tax treatment. It is possible that changes in Luxembourg taxation statutes, administrative practice or applicable regulations may cause a reduction in, or an elimination of, the benefits we receive under the existing Luxembourg tax treatment, which could result in a significant increase to our income tax expense and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Employees Our success depends on our directors, executive officers and key personnel. Our success is dependent on the efforts and abilities of our directors, executive officers and other key employees many of whom have significant experience in the real estate and mortgage, financial services and technology industries. In particular we are dependent on the services of William C. Erbey, our Chairman of the Board, and William B. Shepro, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as the services of key personnel at each of our segments. The loss of the services of any of these directors, executives or key personnel, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to attract and retain skilled employees may adversely impact our business. Our business is labor intensive and places significant importance on our ability to recruit, train and retain skilled employees. Additionally, demand for qualified technical and software professionals conversant in certain technologies may exceed supply as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer 16 Table of Contents technology. Our ability to locate and train employees is critical to achieving our growth objective. Our inability to attract and retain skilled employees or an increase in wages or other costs of attracting, training or retaining skilled employees could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Relationships We could have conflicts of interest with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential, AAMC, our Chairman, our CEO or management due to his, her or their relationship with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC, which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. We do a substantial amount of business with Ocwen, Residential and AAMC and provide certain services to HLSS. Conflicts may arise between Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC and us because of our ongoing agreements with them and because of the nature of our respective businesses. Our Chairman is also the Chairman of Ocwen, HLSS, Residential and AAMC. As a result, he has obligations to us as well as to these other entities and could have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC, as the case may be. Our Chairman also has substantial investments in Ocwen, HLSS, Residential and AAMC, and certain of our other officers and directors own stock or options in one or more of Ocwen, HLSS, Residential and AAMC. Such ownership interests could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and Ocwen, HLSS, Residential and AAMC, as the case may be. We follow policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts with respect to our dealings with Ocwen, HLSS, AAMC and Residential, including our Chairman recusing himself from negotiations regarding, and approvals of, transactions with these entities. We also manage potential conflicts of interest through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors (independent directors constitute a majority of our Board of Directors), and we will also seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential and AAMC. There can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with Ocwen, HLSS, Residential or AAMC or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party that had none of the connections we have with these businesses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents 