Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Loss of governmental requirements or incentives for biodiesel production or consumption could impair our ability to operate at a profit and substantially harm our revenues and operating margins. The biodiesel industry has been substantially aided by federal and state requirements, tax credits and incentives. Because biodiesel has historically been more expensive to produce than diesel fuel, the biodiesel industry has depended on governmental incentives that have effectively brought the price of biodiesel more in line with the price of diesel fuel to the end user. These incentives have supported a market for biodiesel that might not exist without the incentives. The most important of these government programs is the federal Renewable Fuel Standard, or RFS, which Congress enacted in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The RFS requires that a specific amount of renewable fuel be used in motor vehicle fuel nationwide. Beginning July 1, 2010, the RFS program began to require certain volumes of biomass-based diesel (a definition that includes biodiesel and renewable diesel) to be used annually. The requirement for 2011 is 800 million gallons, increasing to one billion gallons in 2012. If Congress were to repeal or curtail the RFS program, or if the EPA is not able or willing to enforce the RFS requirements, demand for our product would not increase as we expect under the RFS and revenues would be harmed. Biodiesel prices are increasingly influenced by the price of the RFS RINs. Biodiesel has historically been priced in relation to ultra low sulfur diesel, or ULSD, plus state and federal tax incentives. Since July 1, 2010, with the introduction of the biomass-based diesel mandate, RINs have become a significant portion of the value of a gallon of biodiesel. Each gallon of biodiesel generates 1.5 biomass-based diesel RINs. Biomass-based diesel RINs had a market value of $0.75 on December 31, 2010 as reported by Oil Price Information Service, or OPIS. Accordingly, on December 31, 2010, approximately 25% of the price of our biodiesel was comprised of the RIN value. The biodiesel industry is also aided by the federal Biodiesel Excise Tax Credit, referred to as the blenders’ tax credit. The blenders’ tax credit provides a $1.00 refundable tax credit per gallon of pure biodiesel, or B100, to the first blender of biodiesel with petroleum based diesel fuel. The blenders’ tax credit is again set to expire on December 31, 2011, after the U.S. Congress allowed it to expire as of December 31, 2009 and then re-enacted it in December 2010 for 2011 and retro-actively for 2010. It is uncertain what action, if any, Congress may take with respect to the blenders’ credit beyond 2011 or when such action might be effective. If Congress decides to eliminate or reduce the blenders’ credit, non-RFS2 related demand for our product could be significantly reduced and/or the price we are able to charge for our product could be significantly reduced without a corresponding reduction in the price of feedstock, in either case, harming revenues and profitability. 7 Table of Contents Numerous states have adopted incentives or requirements to encourage renewable fuel use, including the use of biodiesel. For example, Illinois offers a 6.25% sales tax abatement for B11 (diesel fuel comprised of 11% biodiesel and 89% petroleum-based diesel) blends and Iowa offers a $0.03 income tax credit to petroleum marketers of B2 (diesel fuel comprised of 2% biodiesel and 98% petroleum-based diesel) blends. Many states have adopted and/or implemented biodiesel blend requirements. Oregon has implemented B5 biodiesel blend requirements. Washington’s renewable fuels standard calls for two percent of all diesel fuel consumed in the state to be biodiesel. Minnesota requires a B5 blend, which is scheduled to increase to B10 in 2012, for all diesel fuel. New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and Louisiana have all adopted biodiesel blend requirements legislation. In addition, several Northeast states, including Connecticut and Massachusetts and the City of New York have adopted requirements for biodiesel in home heating oil. Any repeal, expiration, non-renewal, substantial modification or waiver of the renewable fuels mandate or Federal or state incentive programs could reduce the demand for biodiesel and result in our inability to produce and sell biodiesel profitably. Furthermore, our future ability to raise debt or equity capital may be delayed, impaired or made impossible due to the lack of certainty around the continuation of these government programs supporting biodiesel. Our gross margins are dependent on the spread between feedstock costs and biodiesel prices. If the cost of feedstock increases and the price of biodiesel does not proportionately increase or if the price of biodiesel decreases and the cost of feedstock does not proportionately decrease, our gross margins will decrease and our results of operations will be harmed. In addition to governmental incentives, our gross margins depend on the spread between feedstock costs and biodiesel prices. The spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock prices has varied significantly during recent periods. Although actual yields vary depending on the feedstock quality, the average monthly spread between the price per gallon of pure biodiesel, or B100, as reported by The Jacobsen Publishing Company, or Jacobsen, and the price of choice white grease, a common animal fat used to make biodiesel, was $1.82 in 2008, $1.21 in 2009 and $1.00 in 2010, assuming 8.0 pounds of choice white grease yields one gallon of biodiesel. The average monthly spread for crude soybean oil used to make one gallon of biodiesel, based on the nearby futures contract as reported on the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, was $0.66 per gallon in 2008, $0.42 in 2009, and $0.26 per gallon in 2010. For 2010, approximately 91% of our total feedstock usage was animal fat, used cooking oil or inedible corn oil and 9% was soybean oil, compared to approximately 78% for animal fat, used cooking or inedible corn oil and 22% for soybean oil in 2009. The supply of animal fat has historically been affected by the amount of slaughter kills in the United States and demand for animal fat from other markets, such as animal feed rations. The market for used cooking oil, or UCO, as a feedstock for biodiesel is still developing and supply is constrained. Inedible corn oil, which is extracted from distillers’ grain, is also not generally available in quantities sufficient for our operations. At present, there are a limited number of ethanol plants with the corn oil extraction equipment necessary to extract the corn oil that can be used in biodiesel production. If more ethanol plants do not implement the extraction equipment or if ethanol plants remain idle, we may not have the ability to supplement our feedstock requirements with significant amounts of inedible corn oil. These feedstock market dynamics may lead to supply constraints and/or volatile prices, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to produce biodiesel and the profit margins on the biodiesel we do produce. The competition for feedstocks utilized in the biodiesel industry is significant and we compete for feedstock with many different companies, many of which have greater resources than we do. Furthermore, biodiesel mandates in other parts of the world have increased global competition for feedstocks and for certain feedstocks in particular. Consequently, the price of feedstocks may rise and adversely affect our profit margins and threaten the viability of our operations. Biodiesel has traditionally been marketed primarily as an additive or alternative to petroleum-based diesel fuel, and as a result biodiesel prices are primarily influenced by the price of petroleum-based diesel fuel and the government incentives and mandates supporting renewable fuels, rather than biodiesel production costs. Any decrease in the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock costs, whether as a result of an increase in feedstock prices or a reduction in biodiesel prices, including, but not limited to, a reduction in the value of RINs, would adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. Certain subsidiaries have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the biodiesel industry or may require us to dispose of some or all of our assets. Several of our subsidiaries have a significant amount of indebtedness, some of which we have guaranteed. At December 31, 2010, our total term debt was $86.6 million, including consolidated term debt from Seneca Landlord, LLC of which $2.2 million is guaranteed by Renewable Energy Group, Inc. and the remainder of which constitutes the sole obligation of certain subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, the borrowed amount on our lines of credit was $9.6 million all of which is guaranteed by 8 Table of Contents Renewable Energy Group, Inc. Our level of indebtedness could restrict our operations and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations or obtain additional working capital borrowings to fund operations. In connection with the Seneca facility transaction, one of our subsidiaries leases the Seneca facility from its owners under a lease agreement. If a termination of the Seneca facility lease is due to breach by our subsidiary, then we would be required to issue to the Seneca facility owners a three year note in the principal amount of $4.0 million plus certain adjustments, which would add to our total debt outstanding. The significant amount of indebtedness of these subsidiaries could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes. For example, our subsidiaries are required to pay a certain portion of our excess cash flow at our Danville and Newton facilities to their respective lenders annually, which will reduce the cash flow that we receive from these facilities; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and biodiesel industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the biodiesel industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Any failure on the part of our subsidiaries to make payments to their respective lenders would constitute a default under their respective loan agreements and could lead to action on the part of the lenders to collect payment, accelerate the maturity of the loans, foreclose on the biodiesel production facilities or other assets that serve as collateral for the debt and place our subsidiaries into bankruptcy. The inability of these subsidiaries to operate profitably could lead to one or more of these consequences. As a result, our results of operations and ability to operate our business may be harmed. Despite our current debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above. Despite our current debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt in the future, including secured debt. We and certain of our subsidiaries are not currently restricted under the terms of our debt from incurring additional debt, pledging assets, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the debt but that could diminish our ability to make payments thereunder. We have guaranteed certain payment obligations and are subject to a put/call right related to the transaction involving the production facility located in Seneca, Illinois that we lease and operate. Under the terms of the agreements with the owners of a 60 million gallon per year biodiesel production facility located in Seneca, Illinois, or the Seneca Facility, that we lease and operate, we have guaranteed the payments by REG Seneca, LLC of $150,000 per quarter to the equity owners of the Seneca Facility. If Seneca Landlord, LLC does not have the financial resources to pay its obligations, we will have to continue to fund future investment fees. Furthermore, the owners of the Seneca Facility have a right to put their ownership interest to us after April 8, 2011, provided we have a minimum excess net working capital of 1.5 times the put/call price, which is the greater of three times the initial investment or a 35% internal rate of return on the initial investment. If we are required to purchase the Seneca Facility, pursuant to the put right, it will reduce our available cash on hand to use for other purposes, including debt repayment or payment of other operating expenses. We have limited working capital and a recent history of unprofitable operations; if we are unable to fund our operations and unable to raise additional capital, it will limit our growth, may cause us to curtail our operations or sell or liquidate our Company or some of our assets. We have a limited amount of working capital to support our operations. With anticipated increased demand in 2011 for biodiesel due to the RFS2, we believe our working capital requirements will increase. In order to meet this need for increased working capital, we will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations. Rising commodity prices are further increasing our demand for working capital, as both our feedstocks and finished product have increased in price requiring more working capital to manage the same volume of production. If we are unable to increase our working capital, we may find it necessary to curtail operations or forgo sales, harming revenue and profitability. We became cash flow positive during fourth quarter 2010. If we do not remain cash flow positive, we will need to raise additional working capital to continue our operations. If such capital is not available, we may need to curtail operations or sell or liquidate certain assets. 9 Table of Contents Our business is primarily dependent upon one product. As a consequence, we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or endure any decline in the biodiesel industry. Our business is currently focused almost entirely on the production and sale of biodiesel, with glycerin and fatty acid sales and the operations of our Services segment representing only a small portion of revenues. Our reliance on biodiesel means that we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or to withstand any significant decline in the biodiesel industry. Technological advances and changes in production methods in the biodiesel industry could render the Company’s plants obsolete and adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of biodiesel production. If we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances into our operations, our production facilities could become less competitive or obsolete. It is expected that technological advances in biodiesel production methods will continue to occur and new technologies for biodiesel production may develop. For example, development of processes to make the conversion of oils and fats into biodiesel faster and more efficiently could significantly change the biodiesel production process. If improved technologies become available, it may be possible to produce biodiesel at a substantially lower cost than is currently the case. This could require us to acquire new technology and retrofit our plants so that they can remain competitive. There is no assurance that third-party licenses for any new proprietary technologies would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or that any new technologies could be incorporated into our plants. The costs of upgrading our technology and facilities could be substantial. If we are unable to obtain, implement or finance new technologies, our production facilities could be less efficient than our competitors and our results of operations could be substantially harmed. If we are unable to respond to changes in ASTM or customer standards, our ability to sell biodiesel may be harmed. We currently produce biodiesel to conform to or exceed standards established by the American Society of Testing and Materials, or ASTM. ASTM standards for biodiesel and biodiesel blends are modified continuously in response to new observations from the industries involved with diesel fuel. New tests, tighter test limits or higher standards may require us to make additional capital investments in, or modify, plant operations to meet these standards. Many biodiesel customers have developed their own biodiesel standards which are stricter than the ASTM standards. If we are unable to respond to new ASTM standards or our biodiesel customers’ standards, the market for our product may become obsolete, and/or our ability to sell biodiesel may be harmed, negatively impacting our revenue and profitability. We have partially constructed plants and planned plant upgrades that require capital that we may not be able to raise. We have three partially constructed plants, one in New Orleans, Louisiana, one in Emporia, Kansas and one in Clovis, New Mexico, that we expect to complete in order to commence production at these facilities. We also have various upgrades planned for our other facilities. In order to complete construction of these facilities or upgrade our facilities as planned, we will require additional capital. While we intend to finance a portion of these capital expenditures from our cash flow from operations, we will need to raise a significant amount of capital for these projects in the form of new debt or equity. If market conditions prevent us from obtaining such capital on satisfactory terms, or if such capital is otherwise unavailable, or if we encounter cost overruns on these projects such that we have insufficient capital, we may have to postpone completion of these projects indefinitely, which may adversely affect our future revenue and cash flow. Our success may depend on our ability to manage our growing and changing operations. Since our formation, our business has grown significantly in size and complexity. This growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. In addition, we expect that we will need to further develop our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This will require us to incur expenses related to hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. In 2010, we acquired REG Biofuels, Inc, Blackhawk Biofuels, LLC, Central Iowa Energy, LLC, Tellurian Biodiesel, Inc., American BDF, LLC, a partially complete facility in Clovis, New Mexico and entered into a seven year lease on the Seneca, Illinois Facility. We may, in the future, acquire additional companies, products or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all of these transactions and each transaction has numerous risks. These risks include: • difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; 10 Table of Contents • difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies, products or services with our current technologies, products or services; • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or technology, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired company’s intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, data back-up and security, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies; • exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; and • incurring significant exit charges if products or services acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. The aforementioned risks apply to our acquisitions mentioned above as well as acquisitions we may do in the future. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete transactions or integrate an acquired business successfully, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated. We may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating to any acquisitions, and such acquisitions could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and require significant management resources. We regularly review domestic and international acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing arrangements and other relationships with complementary business, services or products. However, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Even if we identify appropriate acquisition candidates, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired business, service or product into our existing business and operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may require significant management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or strategic alliance and such transactions may not generate anticipated financial results. Future acquisitions could also require us to incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or amortize expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our results of operations. We are highly dependent upon key members of our management team for execution of our business plan. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of these key employees. The loss of any of these key employees could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our executive officers. The loss of any of our key management personnel could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Our business may suffer if we are unable to attract or retain talented personnel. Our success depends on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity, and good faith of our management and employees to manage the business and respond to economic, market and other conditions. We have a relatively small but very effective management team and employee base, and the inability to attract suitably qualified replacements or additional staff could adversely affect our business. No assurance can be given that our management team or employee base will continue their employment with the Company, or that replacement personnel with comparable skills could be found. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and additional employees, our business may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the value of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. The process of maintaining our internal controls may be expensive and time consuming and may require significant attention from management. Although we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could harm the value of our stock and our business. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which are likely to cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate. Our operating results are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of biodiesel. Our sales tend to decrease during the winter season due to concerns that biodiesel will not perform adequately in colder weather and a decrease in agricultural activities. Colder seasonal temperatures can cause the higher cloud point biodiesel we make from animal fats to become cloudy and eventually to gel at a higher temperature than petroleum diesel or lower cloud point biodiesel made from soybean, canola or inedible corn oil. Such gelling can lead to plugged fuel filters and other fuel handling and performance problems for customers and suppliers. Reduced demand in the winter for our higher cloud point biodiesel may result in excess supply of such high cloud point biodiesel and/or lower prices for such high cloud point biodiesel. As a result of these seasonal fluctuations, comparisons of operating measures between consecutive quarters may not be as meaningful as comparisons between longer reporting periods. Risk management transactions could significantly increase our operating costs and working capital requirements if we incorrectly estimate our feedstock demands and biodiesel sales as compared to market conditions. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of volatility of feedstock costs and biodiesel fuel prices, we may enter into contracts that establish market positions in feedstocks, such as animal fats and soybean oil, and related commodities, such as heating oil and ultra low sulfur diesel. The financial statement impact of such market positions will depend on market prices at the time of performance and could result in more or less favorable results. Risk management arrangements will also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the counter party to the contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded or over-the-counter futures or options contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the contract and the actual prices paid or received by us. Risk management activities can themselves result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. Changes in the value of these futures instruments are recognized in current income and may result in margin calls. We may also vary the amount of risk management strategies we undertake, and we may choose not to engage in risk management transactions at all. Further, our ability to reduce the risk of falling biodiesel prices and rising feedstock costs will be limited as there is not an established futures market for biodiesel or the vast majority of our feedstocks, nor are fixed-price long-term contracts generally available. As a result, our results of operations, working capital requirements and financial position may be adversely affected by increases in the price of feedstocks, or decreases in the price of biodiesel that are not risk managed effectively. A leak, fire or explosion at any of our production plants or natural disaster damage to our plants would increase our costs and liabilities. Because biodiesel and some of its inputs and outputs are combustible and flammable, a leak, fire or explosion may occur at a plant which could result in damage to the plant and nearby properties, injury to employees and others, and interruption of operations. Our Houston facility, due to its coastal location, may incur plant damage, injury to employees and others, and interruption of operations as a result of a hurricane. All of our plants may incur damage from tornados, earthquakes or other natural disasters. If any of the foregoing events occur, we may incur significant additional costs including, among other things, loss of profits from inability to operate, clean-up costs, liability for damages or injuries, legal expenses, and reconstruction expenses, which would negatively affect our profitability. We are reliant on certain strategic raw materials for our operations. We are reliant on certain strategic raw materials for our operations. We have implemented certain risk management tools, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market fluctuations in raw material supply and costs. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. In addition, natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities, or other political factors in any of the countries or regions in which we operate or do business, or in countries or regions that are key suppliers of strategic raw materials, could affect availability and costs of raw materials. 12 Table of Contents While temporary shortages of raw materials may occasionally occur, these items have historically been sufficiently available to cover current requirements. However, their continuous availability and price are impacted by natural disasters, plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, and war or other outbreak of hostilities. In addition, as we increase our biodiesel production, we will require larger supplies of these materials which have not yet been secured and may not be available for the foregoing reasons, or may be available only at prices higher than current levels. Our operations may be adversely affected by these factors. One customer accounted for a meaningful percent of revenue and a loss of this customer would have an adverse impact on our total revenue. One customer accounted for 24% of our total revenue in 2009 and 29% of our total revenue in the 2010. In the event we lose this customer and cannot replace the lost revenue with revenue from other customers, our revenue would decline which would negatively affect our profitability. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. We require new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that know-how and inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, these agreements may not be enforceable, our proprietary information may be disclosed, third parties could reverse engineer our processes and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We are a holding company and there are limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries and many of these subsidiaries have entered into other agreements that contractually restrict them from paying dividends, making distributions or making loans to our parent company or to any other subsidiary. These limitations may restrict our ability to repay, from operations, indebtedness, finance capital projects or pay dividends to stockholders. Strategic relationships on which we may rely are subject to change. Our ability to maintain commercial arrangements with biodiesel customers, feedstock suppliers, and transportation and logistics services providers will depend on maintaining close working relationships with industry participants including some of our current shareholders, particularly Bunge, ED&F Man, and West Central. As we continue to develop our business, we expect to use the business relationships of management and our stockholders in order to form strategic relationships such as contractual arrangements, joint ventures, financings or minority investments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or establish additional necessary strategic relationships, in which case our business may be negatively affected. Failure to comply with governmental regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines, or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. The biodiesel industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations related to the general population’s health and safety and compliance and permitting obligations, including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, pollutants or hazardous substances, or discharges and air and other emissions as well as land use and development. Existing laws also impose obligations to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and obligations could require substantial capital expenditures. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. These costs and liabilities could adversely affect our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business in general and on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect our operations in any area. 13 Table of Contents Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant and, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the regulations mentioned above, we are subject to various laws and regulations related to RFS2, most significantly regulations related to the generation and dissemination of RINs. These regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. Any violation of these regulations by us, inadvertent or otherwise, could result in significant fines and harm our customer’s confidence in the RINs we issue, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance may not protect us against our business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate for our business and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased biodiesel industry penetration by petroleum companies, agribusiness companies or other multinational companies may adversely impact our margins. We operate in a very competitive environment. The biodiesel industry is primarily comprised of smaller entities that engage exclusively in biodiesel production and large integrated agribusiness companies that produce biodiesel along with their soybean crush businesses. We face competition for capital, labor, feedstocks and other resources from these companies. Petroleum companies and diesel retailers have not been engaged in biodiesel production to a large extent. These companies, however, form the primary distribution networks for marketing biodiesel through blended petroleum diesel. If these companies seek to engage in direct or indirect biodiesel production, there will be less of a need to purchase biodiesel from independent biodiesel producers like us. Such a structural change in the market could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial position. We operate in a highly competitive industry. In the United States, we compete with other soybean processors and refiners, including Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, LLC, Cargill, Inc. and Louis Dreyfus Commodities. Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have greater financial resources than we do. Although some of our competitors are larger than we are, we also have many smaller competitors. In 2010, the top ten domestic biodiesel producers accounted for approximately 80% of all biodiesel production. If our competitors consolidate or otherwise grow and we are unable to similarly increase our size and scope, our business and prospects may be significantly and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Biodiesel Industry The market price of biodiesel is strongly influenced by the price of petroleum distillate fuels, such as ultra-low sulfur diesel, and decreases in the price of petroleum-based distillate fuels would very likely decrease the price we can charge for our biodiesel, which could harm our revenues and profitability. Historically, biodiesel prices have generally been strongly correlated to petroleum diesel prices and in particular ultra low sulfer diesel. Petroleum prices are volatile due to global factors such as the impact of wars and other political events, OPEC production quotas, worldwide economic conditions, changes in refining capacity and natural disasters. Just as a small reduction in the real or anticipated supply of crude oil can have a significant upward impact on the price of petroleum-based fuels, a perceived reduction of such threats can result in a significant reduction in petroleum fuel prices. A reduction in petroleum-based fuel prices may have a material adverse affect on our revenues and profits if such price decrease reduces the price we are able to charge for our biodiesel and the cost of our feedstocks do not decrease proportionately. There is currently excess production capacity and low utilization in the biodiesel industry and if demand does not significantly increase, the price at which we sell biodiesel may be depressed and our revenues and ability to operate may be harmed. Many biodiesel plants do not operate, and of those that do, many do not operate at full capacity. The EPA reports that 2.2 billion gallons per year of biodiesel production capacity in the United States is registered with them under the RFS program. Further, plants under construction and expansion in the U.S. as of December 2010, if completed, could add an additional 14 Table of Contents several hundred million gallons of annual biodiesel production capacity. The annual production capacity of existing plants and plants under construction far exceeds the annual consumption of biodiesel in the U.S. This excess production capacity, if it were to come into production, would increase competition for our feedstocks and could increase the volume of biodiesel on the market beyond that mandated by the RFS, either of which would harm our revenues and profitability. The development of alternative fuels and energy sources may reduce the demand for biodiesel, resulting in a reduction in our profitability. Our ability to increase our revenues depends on increased demand for biodiesel. If adoption of biodiesel as a diesel fuel additive or alternative does not occur to the extent we anticipate, our business and results of operations will not reach anticipated levels. Alternative fuels, including a variety of energy alternatives to biodiesel, are continually under development. The construction of several renewable diesel plants has been announced. Petroleum-based fuels and non-petroleum based fuels like renewable diesel that can compete with biodiesel in the marketplace are already in use and in the future more efficient or environmentally friendly alternatives may be developed, which may decrease the demand for biodiesel or the type of biodiesel that we produce. Technological advances in engine and exhaust system design and performance could reduce the use of and demand for biodiesel. Further advances in power generation technologies, based on cleaner hydrocarbon-based fuels, renewable diesel, fuel cells and hydrogen are actively being researched and developed. If these technological advances and alternatives to biodiesel prove to be economically feasible, environmentally superior and accepted in the marketplace, the market for biodiesel could be significantly diminished or replaced, which would substantially reduce our revenues and profitability. The development of alternative fuels and renewable chemicals also puts pressure on feedstock supply and availability to the biodiesel industry. If these emerging technologies are more profitable or have greater governmental support than biodiesel does, then the biodiesel industry and REG in particular, may have difficulty in procuring necessary feedstocks to be successful. We face competition from outside the biodiesel industry, including, for example, from manufacturers of renewable diesel and potential alternative clean power engines under development. The biodiesel industry is in competition with the diesel fuel segment of the petroleum industry. Biodiesel is generally more expensive to produce than diesel fuel, and is able to compete with diesel fuel largely as a result of government environmental regulations and economic incentives. If the diesel fuel industry is able to produce diesel fuel with acceptable environmental characteristics or if governmental regulations and tax incentives cease to favor renewable fuels, we would find it difficult, if not impossible, to compete with petroleum-based diesel fuel. Renewable diesel, which can be made at existing petroleum refineries from renewable feedstocks and may be mixed with crude oil through a thermal de-polymerization process, is eligible for federal blenders’ tax credits and other governmental incentives offered to producers of biodiesel. Renewable diesel made from 100% renewable feedstocks benefits from the same $1.00 per gallon tax credit that biodiesel receives and co-processed renewable diesel made from a combination of renewable feedstocks and petroleum crude is eligible for a $0.50 per gallon tax credit. Under the RFS rules, renewable diesel made from biomass meets the definition of biomass-based diesel and thus is eligible, along with biodiesel to satisfy the RFS biomass-based diesel mandate. Furthermore, under the RFS rules, renewable diesel receives 1.7 RINs per gallon, where biodiesel receives 1.5 RINs. As the value of RINs increase, this 0.2 RIN advantage that renewable diesel has over biodiesel may make renewable diesel more cost-effective, both as a petroleum diesel substitute and for meeting the RFS mandate. In addition, the petroleum industry is lobbying states to make renewable diesel eligible for their incentives and mandates. If renewable diesel proves to be more cost-effective than biodiesel, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely impacted. The biodiesel industry will also face increased competition resulting from the advancement of technology by automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers which are developing more efficient engines, hybrid engines and alternative clean power systems. Improved engines and alternative clean power systems offer a technological solution to address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. If and when these clean power systems are able to offer significant efficiency and environmental benefits and become widely available, the biodiesel industry may not be able to compete effectively with these technologies. This additional competition could reduce the demand for biodiesel, which would negatively impact our revenues. Concerns about “food vs. fuel” and biodiesel emissions could impair our ability to operate at a profit and substantially harm our revenues and operating margins. The biodiesel industry has been substantially aided by federal and state mandates, tax credits and incentives. Because biodiesel has historically been more expensive to produce than diesel fuel, the biodiesel industry has depended on governmental incentives that have effectively brought the price of biodiesel more in line with the price of diesel fuel to the end user. These incentives have supported a market for biodiesel that might not exist without the incentives. Some people believe that biodiesel may increase the cost of food as some feedstocks used to make biodiesel can also be used for animal feed and other food products. This debate is often referred to as food vs. fuel. This controversy is dangerous to the biodiesel industry because biodiesel demand is heavily influenced by government policy and if public opinion were to erode, it is possible that these policies will lose political support. These views could also negatively impact public perception 15 Table of Contents of biodiesel and acceptance of biodiesel as an alternative fuel. Such claims have led some, including members of Congress, to urge the modification of current government policies which affect the production and sale of biofuels in the United States. To the extent that such state or federal laws were modified or public perception harms acceptance of biodiesel, the demand for biodiesel may be reduced, which could negatively and materially affect our ability to operate profitably. In some instances biodiesel may increase emissions of nitrogen oxide, which could harm air quality. Texas currently requires that biodiesel blends contain an additive to eliminate this perceived nitrogen oxide increase. California is in the process of formulating biodiesel regulations that may also require such an additive. In such states where an additive is required to sell biodiesel, the additional cost of the additive may make biodiesel less cost competitive against petroleum diesel or renewable diesel, which would negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Problems with product performance, in cold weather or otherwise, could cause consumers to lose confidence in the reliability of biodiesel which, in turn, would have an adverse impact on our ability to successfully market and sell biodiesel. Concerns about the performance of biodiesel could result in a decrease in customers and revenues and an unexpected increase in expenses. For example, cold temperatures can cause biodiesel to become cloudy and eventually to gel, and this phenomena can lead to plugged fuel filters and other problems. Cloud point is defined as the temperature below which a fuel exhibits a noticeable cloudiness and is the conventional indicator of a fuel’s potential for cold weather problems. The lower the cloud point, the better the fuel should perform in cold weather. The cloud point of biodiesel is typically between 30 °F and 60 °F, while the cloud point of No. 2 petroleum diesel fuel is typically less than 20 °F. When diesel is mixed with biodiesel to make a two percent biodiesel blend, the cloud point of the blended fuel can be 2 °F to 6 °F higher than petroleum diesel and the cloud point of a twenty percent biodiesel blend is 15 °F to 30 °F higher than petroleum diesel, depending on the individual cloud points of the biodiesel and petroleum diesel. These increased cloud points may cause demand for biodiesel in northern and eastern U.S. markets to diminish during the colder months. The tendency of biodiesel to gel in colder weather may also result in long-term storage problems. In cold climates, fuel may need to be stored in a heated building or heated storage tanks, which result in higher storage costs. This and other performance problems, including the possibility of particulate formation above the cloud point of a blend of biodiesel and petroleum diesel, may also result in increased expenses as we try to remedy the performance problem. Remedying these performance problems may result in decreased yields, lower process throughput or both, as well as substantial capital costs. Any reduction in the demand for, or production capacity of, our biodiesel product will reduce our revenue and have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Growth in the sale and distribution of biodiesel is dependent on the expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure limitations or disruptions. Growth in the biodiesel industry depends on substantial development of infrastructure for the distribution of biodiesel by persons and entities outside our control. Expansion of the distribution system includes, among other things: • additional terminal and storage facilities for biodiesel; • growth in the number of service stations offering biodiesel; and • growth in the manufacture of clean diesel vehicles. Substantial investment required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or may not be made on a timely basis. The scope and timing of any infrastructure expansion are generally beyond our control. Also, we compete with other biofuel companies for access to some of the key infrastructure components such as pipeline and terminal capacity. As a result, increased production of biodiesel or other biofuels will increase the demand and competition for necessary infrastructure. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of distribution infrastructure could hurt the demand for or prices of biodiesel, impede delivery of our biodiesel, and impose additional costs, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business will be dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure for the distribution of increasing volumes of biodiesel and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. The European Commission has imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on biodiesel blends of B20 or higher imported into Europe, which have effectively eliminated our ability to sell those biodiesel blends in Europe; the European Commission is considering imposing anti-dumping and countervailing duties on biodiesel blends below B20, which would effectively eliminate our ability to sell these lower blends in Europe as well. In March 2009, the European Commission imposed anti-dumping and anti-subsidy tariffs on biodiesel produced in the U.S. These tariffs have effectively eliminated European demand for biodiesel blends of B20 or higher from the U.S. The European Commission has extended these tariffs beyond their July 2009 expiration until 2014. These duties significantly increase the 16 Table of Contents price at which we and other U.S. biodiesel producers will be able to sell such biodiesel blends in European markets, making it difficult or impossible to compete in the European biodiesel market. The European Commission is considering imposing similar anti-dumping and countervailing duties on biodiesel blends below B20. If such anti-dumping and countervailing duties are imposed, it would likely increase the price for such biodiesel blends to the point where such biodiesel blends are not competitive in the European market. These anti-dumping and countervailing duties decrease the demand for biodiesel produced in the United States and increase the supply of biodiesel available in the U.S. market. Such market dynamics may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. We may face competition from imported biodiesel, which may reduce demand for biodiesel produced by us and cause our revenues to decline. Biodiesel produced in Canada, South America, Eastern Asia, the Pacific Rim, or other regions may be imported into the U.S. market to compete with U.S. produced biodiesel. These regions may benefit from biodiesel production incentives or other financial incentives in their home countries that offset some of their biodiesel production costs and enable them to profitably sell biodiesel in the U.S. at lower prices than U.S. based biodiesel producers. Under the RFS rules, imported biodiesel may be eligible and, therefore, may compete to meet the volumetric requirements. This could make it more challenging for us to market or sell biodiesel in the U.S., which would harm our revenues. If automobile manufacturers and other industry groups express reservations regarding the use of biodiesel, our ability to sell biodiesel will be negatively impacted. Because it is a relatively new product, the research on biodiesel use in automobiles and its effect on the environment is ongoing. Some industry groups, including the World Wide Fuel Charter, have recommended that blends of no more than 5% biodiesel be used for automobile fuel due to concerns about fuel quality, engine performance problems and possible detrimental effects of biodiesel on rubber components and other parts of the engine. Although some manufacturers have encouraged use of biodiesel fuel in their vehicles, cautionary pronouncements by other manufacturers or industry groups may impact our ability to market our biodiesel. In addition, certain studies have shown that nitrogen oxide emissions increase when biodiesel is used. Nitrogen oxide is the chief contributor to ozone and smog. New engine technology is available and is being implemented to eliminate this problem. However, these emissions may decrease the appeal of biodiesel to environmental groups and agencies who have been historic supporters of the biodiesel industry, potentially harming our ability to market our biodiesel. Several biofuels companies throughout the country have filed for bankruptcy over the last several years due to industry and economic conditions. Unfavorable worldwide economic conditions, lack of credit and volatile biofuel prices and feedstock costs have likely contributed to the necessity of bankruptcy filings by biofuel producers. Our business has been and in the future may be negatively impacted by the industry conditions that influenced the bankruptcy proceedings of other biofuel producers, or we may encounter new competition from buyers of distressed biodiesel properties who enter the industry at a lower cost than original plant investors. Risks Related to our Stock There is no public market for our stock and approximately 75% of our shares are subject to transfer restrictions, which limits the ability of our stockholders to sell their stock. There is currently no public market for our stock and we do not know when, if ever, our stock will be listed on a public exchange. As a result, a stockholder’s ability to sell our stock is limited and our stockholders may not be able to sell their stock at all. Approximately 75% of our combined Preferred Stock and Common Stock is subject to the Stockholder Agreement which restricts transfer of their shares. If a market were to develop in the remaining unrestricted shares, there is no assurance that the market price would be at a level stockholders perceive reflects the full value of our stock. In the event we are sold, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a significant preference payment prior to any distribution to the holders of our common stock. In the event of a merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of the assets or liquidation of our Company, which are referred to as liquidation events, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a preferential distribution of $13.75 per share, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends up to an aggregate per share preference amount of $16.50. Upon any of the liquidation events described above, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock collectively would be entitled to receive approximately $222 million (assuming accrued but unpaid dividends existed to the maximum amount) prior to the distribution of any amounts to the holders of our common stock. In addition, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred 17 Table of Contents Stock are also entitled to share ratably with the holders of our common stock, on an as converted to our common stock basis, following the preferential distribution. As a result of this liquidation preference, the holders of our common stock will receive less than their pro rata share upon the occurrence of a liquidation event and would receive nothing in the event that the amount involved does not exceed the aggregate liquidation preference of our Series A Preferred Stock. We are a party to a Stockholder Agreement with certain of our principal stockholders pursuant to which these stockholders are able to elect all or substantially all of our directors and give these stockholders the right to cause the sale of control of us, all without the vote or consent of our other stockholders. A few of our stockholders who collectively hold a majority of our voting power are party to a Stockholder Agreement pursuant to which these stockholders have agreed to vote their shares in favor of four board nominees designated by NGP Energy Technology Partners, LP and Natural Gas Partners, VIII, LP, or NGP, ED&F Man, Bunge, USRG and West Central, with West Central having the right to designate five board nominees to be supported by this group of stockholders. So long as the parties to the Stockholder Agreement collectively hold a majority of our voting power, they will have the power to elect all of our directors, without regard to the vote of other stockholders. In addition, the Stockholder Agreement provides that after August 1, 2011, a majority of our Series A Preferred Stockholders that are party to the Stockholder Agreement may under certain circumstances cause all parties to the Stockholder Agreement to sell all of their shares in response to a third party offer for all of our shares or to vote their shares in favor of a third party acquisition proposal. As a result, these parties to the Stockholder Agreement may have the ability to cause a future change of control of our Company, without the consent of non-parties to the Stockholder Agreement. We may be obligated to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock beginning in 2014. At any time after February 26, 2014, certain holders of our outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may require that all or part of any of our issued and outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock be redeemed by us out of funds lawfully available at a price per share equal to the greater of the then fair market value of their shares, or $13.75 plus accrued interest in an aggregate amount not to exceed $16.50 per share. If all of our holders of Series A Preferred Stock elect to have their shares redeemed, our obligation would be approximately $222 million. In the event we do not have funds available to satisfy any redemption request, we are obligated under our corporate charter to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain funds for the redemption during the subsequent 18 month time period. In order to satisfy any redemption request, we may be required to borrow money, issue equity securities or sell assets to meet this obligation, which could impair our ability to raise the funds necessary to operate our business, involve significant dilution to our holders of Common Stock or require the disposition of our key assets. We are not able to take certain corporate actions without the prior consent of certain holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, which places significant control in the hands of these stockholders who may have interests that conflict with our interests and the interests of our common stockholders. We have to obtain the consent of certain holders of our Series A Preferred Stock before we may: • issue equity securities on parity with or having a preference over the Series A Preferred Stock; • increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of any series of preferred stock; • amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; • alter or change the rights, preferences or privileges of the shares of any series of preferred stock; • issue, or cause any subsidiary to issue, any indebtedness, other than certain indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business; • amend, renew, increase or otherwise alter in any material respect the terms of any indebtedness previously approved or required to be approved by the holders of preferred stock, other than the incurrence of debt solely to fund the payment of accrued dividends on our Preferred Stock or solely to fund the redemption of our Series A Preferred Stock; • increase the authorized number of directors constituting our Board of Directors; • redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire (or pay into or set aside for a sinking fund for such purpose) any of our shares of capital stock subject to certain exceptions; • declare or pay dividends or otherwise make distributions with respect to any shares of our capital stock, other than dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock; • declare bankruptcy, dissolve, liquidate or wind up our affairs or any subsidiary; • modify or change the nature of our business such that a material portion of our business is devoted to any business other than the business of (A) designing, constructing or operating facilities for biofuels, chemicals or by-products thereof and (B) procurement, manufacturing, selling, distribution, logistics, marketing or risk management related to biofuels, chemicals or by-products thereof; • make or permit any subsidiary to make any capital expenditure in excess of $500,000 which is not otherwise included in the annual budget previously approved by our board of directors; • effect any sale of assets in excess of $500,000 or merge into another entity; 18 Table of Contents • acquire directly, or through a subsidiary, the stock or any material assets of another corporation, partnership or other person or entity for consideration valued at more than ten percent of our total assets; or • agree or commit to do any of the foregoing. The interests of these holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may differ significantly from the interests of the holders of our Common Stock or other holders of Series A Preferred Stock. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may not take into consideration any interests other than their own when voting on any of the matters referred to above and, as a result, we and the holders our Common Stock or other holders of Series A Preferred Stock may be harmed. If we issue additional shares in the future, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we issue additional shares of preferred or common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata ownership of our capital stock. The issuance of additional securities may result in a reduction of the book value of the outstanding shares of our common stock and preferred stock. If we issue any such additional shares or securities convertible into or exercisable into common shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all current stockholders who do not purchase such shares. Further, such issuance may result in a change of control of our Company. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and thus stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. Our Series A Preferred Stock accrues dividends at a rate of $0.88 per share per annum, compounded annually. So long as any accrued dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock have not been paid, we may not pay or declare any dividend or make any distribution upon or in respect of our Common Stock or other capital stock ranking on a parity with or junior to our Series A Preferred Stock. Furthermore, we currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 