Risk Factors — Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability risks.” If we are unable to generate profitable sales this will significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. In 2012, our biofuel revenue was generated primarily from three customers, with our by-products readily sold to a number of customers. Our contracts in 2012 have since expired and we cannot assure you that we will be able to source new customers and establish and maintain long-term relationships with such customers. As a result of our inability to find profitable sales contracts our refining operations are currently in care and maintenance. If we are unable to source new customers our revenues will be significantly reduced and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we cannot find suitably qualified personnel to run our refineries we may be unable to deliver into sales contracts which may result in lost revenues and incurred costs. The operation of our refineries requires suitably qualified personnel. With the current status of the refineries being in care and maintenance, the majority of personnel have been retrenched. The ability to restart the refineries may be affected by an inability to employ suitably trained staff. If we cannot get the refineries to run successfully after being in care and maintenance. we may be unable to deliver into sales contracts which may result in lost revenues and incurred costs. With the refineries being under care and maintenance, such non-operation may result in significant costly technical and mechanical delays if the decision were made to restart production. 10 An increase in cost or an interruption in the supply of our feedstock may inhibit production and adversely affect our financial performance. The operation of our refineries is dependent on our ability to procure substantial quantities of suitable quality feedstock.. At this time, our refining operation is in care and maintenance and not operating. However, should we return to operations, the failure to procure a sufficient supply of raw materials satisfying our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to produce our products or could increase our costs. Any interruption to the supply of suitable quality feedstock may result in disruptions in production or reduced output, which may materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, our financial results are substantially dependent on the prices for our feedstock. A substantial increase in feedstock price relative to the value of our end products would adversely affect our financial performance. Although we may attempt to offset the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into arrangements with our customers on a feedstock price plus contract basis through which we receive a predetermined margin over the price of the feedstock or by engaging in transactions that involve exchange-traded futures contracts (or other contractual arrangements securing future commodity prices), the amount and duration of these hedging and risk mitigation activities may vary substantially over time. These activities also involve substantial risks. Our contract farming model is subject to inherent risks and if we cannot improve the results of poor performing farmers in certain states, our Jatropha oil yield and the results of our operations will be adversely impacted. We have entered into contracts with farmers in India to grow the Jatropha plants and provide the seeds that are crushed to produce feedstock oil. However, there is no assurance that the contracted farmers will be able meet our expected yields of seeds for feedstock oil whether due to the poor farm management of individual farmers or the poor health, low productivity or mortality of the Jatropha plants. Further as we have restructured our operations in India and substantially reduced our field force we may not be able to influence the agronomy activities of our contract farmers or be engaged in contract farming at all. We may be unable to enhance the results of the low performing states or focus our operations in the areas giving the best results. Our contract farming operation is based on contract farming and that the Jatropha oil is primarily an agricultural product subject to agronomic risks, it is unlikely that all recorded acreage will provide us with Jatropha oil and we can provide no assurances as to our Jatropha oil yield. Further, as yields are below expectations, and we have been unable to accurately predict yields in the past, resulting in an inability to predict yields going forward, a decision has been made not to expand the contract farming acreage until more clarity can be obtained on yields. Insufficient funds to fund the contract farming model would severely limit the ability to gain value from the contract farming operations. Our operations require a large field force in order to manage the contract farming operations. An inability to fund this field force would likely result in uneconomic quantities of Jatropha seeds being collected to make the business operation financially viable. If our farmers are unable to obtain financing, they may be unable to perform under their contracts and our feedstock supply could be disrupted. The model for our feedstock cultivation strategy relies on a contract farming agreement with our farmers. To assist our farmers in their purchase of saplings from us and to provide the necessary working capital to operate their farms until their acreage produces yield, we have facilitated arrangements with certain Indian banks to provide loans to some of the farmers to finance their planting, including purchases from us of saplings and materials required for the cultivation of Jatropha plants. If we cannot facilitate such loans on similar terms or at all in the future, the farmers with whom we have entered into contracts will likely be unable to pay for the saplings provided by us and therefore may limit our ability to grow our business. An inability to collect payment on accounts receivable for sold saplings may require us to alter our intended growth of acreage under contract, which ultimately could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, the inability of our contract farmers to obtain financing or their failure to perform under their contracts for any reason would cause disruptions in our future feedstock supply chain and subject us to risks of disruption and reduction in output at our plants. 11 We have experienced and may in the future experience volatile capacity utilization which may adversely affect our results of operations. As we continue with our downscaled Jatropha cultivation, we remain reliant on palm oil as a feedstock. If the price of palm oil is greater than the value of our biodiesel, which is priced relative to ultra low sulphur diesel (“ULSD”), we may not be able to profitably sell biodiesel into the immediate cash payment and delivery market. Our ability to supply palm-based biodiesel profitably is based on having positive margins where our input costs are lower than the value of our refined product. We are unable to influence the price of palm oil or the price of biodiesel. Resultantly, our biodiesel profitability is reliant on the existence of a positive spread between these two commodities. As we only operate when a positive operating margin exists, we have and expect to continue to have in the future erratic capacity utilization which may adversely affect our results of operations. We have suffered and may continue to suffer low capacity utilization if we are unable to secure term contracts. Given the volatility of profit margins on biodiesel production due to fluctuations in commodity pricing for palm oil and the value of our finished product, we have not converted palm oil to biodiesel unless we have a committed contract customer willing to accept pricing based on our cost of purchasing feedstock and earning a positive margin from refining. We currently have no customers and have no visibility on our ability to attract customers. As such our refining operations have been put on care and maintenance. We have suffered and may continue to suffer low capacity utilization if we are unable to secure material volumes of biodiesel sales under the Malaysian Biodiesel mandate. After numerous years discussing the possible implementation of a biodiesel blending mandate in Malaysia, the Malaysian Government introduced a scheme to mandate a 5% biodiesel blend into commercial diesel sales in the Central region of Malaysia. In addition the scheme was for a lower volume than previously communicated to Malaysian Biodiesel producers. Accordingly we secured relatively low volumes of biodiesel sales under this scheme. If the scheme is not extended, or cancelled altogether, or commercially viable quantities are not secured by us, this may adversely affect our results of operations. Due to insufficient and unprofitable sales volumes under this mandate, we terminated the arrangements to supply biodiesel and we currently have no biodiesel sales in Malaysia and have no visibility towards further sales in Malaysia. As such, our refining operation shave been put on care and maintenance. We are unable to perform under the offtake agreement with Valero. Due to recent regulatory changes, our palm and Jatropha-based biodiesel is not compliant with governmental mandates in the United States, the intended market for the biodiesel under the offtake agreement. As a result, we do not expect to supply biodiesel to Valero under the offtake agreement until these regulatory hurdles are resolved. Our inability to meet margin calls on hedged positions would adversely affect our financial condition. To maximize and protect the profitability of the offtake agreement, we may enter into hedging positions to protect against commodity risk. Upon entering the hedging positions and the inherent volatility in the commodity markets, we will likely be required to make margin call payments from time to time. Inability to meet such margin calls would adversely affect our financial condition and financial performance. We may suffer losses due to sales of competing products that infringe on our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, domain names and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that the measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to prevent any misappropriation of our intellectual property, or that our competitors will not independently develop alternative technologies that are equivalent or superior to technologies based on our intellectual property. In the event that the steps we have taken and the protection afforded by law do not adequately safeguard our proprietary technology, we could suffer losses due to the sales of competing products that exploit our intellectual property, and our profitability would be adversely affected. 12 If we are subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others, the defense of these claims could drain our resources and any adverse determination could adversely impact or halt our biodiesel production. Our biodiesel refineries include contracts with Crown Iron Works, Inc., or Crown, and Axens for the supply of our proprietary systems, over which they have intellectual property that they have licensed to us. This intellectual property includes the operating procedures and technical schematics of our biodiesel refineries, which are required to operate and maintain the plants. The unauthorized use or disclosure of Crown’s, Axens’ or our intellectual property or the infringement by us of another person’s intellectual property right may adversely affect our financial performance. To the best of our knowledge, our patented process does not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. However, intellectual property rights are complex and there exists the risk that our process may infringe, or be alleged to infringe, another party’s intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or manufacturing processes or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Any inability to obtain and maintain all the required licenses and permits related to our business and the resulting increased compliance costs may adversely affect our financial performance. We are required to hold or obtain a number of licenses and permits, including environmental and those related to materials handling, in various jurisdictions in order to implement and operate our business. In particular our biodiesel refining operation in Malaysia holds a Lembaga Minyak Sawit Malaysia license (which allows for the buying, selling, movement and importation of palm oil products) and a Kementerian Perusahaan Perladangan & Komoditi license (which allows the production of biodiesel). The Lembaga Minyak Sawit Malaysia license is renewed annually and is currently valid. We have no reason to believe that this license will not be renewed, although renewal is not assured. The Kementerian Perusahaan Perladangan & Komoditi license is renewed every three years and is currently valid until July 20, 2012 and we have no reason to believe that this license will not be renewed, although renewal is not assured. In particular, our Jatropha operations in India hold a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (“FIRB”) license (which allows investment by Mission into its Indian feedstock business and approves the activity of being engaged in the contract farming of Jatropha Curcas and utilization of the Jatropha oil for domestic or export markets). This license is in place and is not required to be renewed. There is a risk that we will not comply with the ongoing requirements imposed under those licenses or permits, although we are not aware of any compliance deficiency that jeopardizes our standing as a licensee. There is also a risk that the licenses and permits required, or the conditions imposed on us under them, will change from time to time. Our ongoing compliance costs may increase as a result. Either of the above may adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to environmental regulations, the compliance with which imposes substantial costs on us and the violation of which could result in penalties and other liabilities. Laws dealing with protection of the environment provide for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such laws and establish, in certain circumstances, obligations to remediate facilities and locations where operations are conducted. We may incur substantial costs in the future as part of our continued efforts to comply with these environmental laws and to avoid violations of them. We may experience a significant chemical or biodiesel spill at our refineries or we may experience a chemical spill or human ingestion of toxic materials during the Jatropha crude oil crushing process. If any of these events occur or if we otherwise fail to comply with the applicable environmental or other regulations, we could be subject to significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions of our operations, and our business reputation and profitability could be adversely affected. 13 Any amendments to the environmental laws could impose substantial pollution control measures that could require us to make significant expenditures to modify our production process or change the design of our products to limit actual or potential impact to the environment. Moreover, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make significant additional expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability risks. Our insurance arrangements may not adequately protect us against liability for all losses, including but not limited to environmental losses, property damage, public liability or losses arising from business interruption and product liability risk. Additionally, we may be unable to renew our existing insurance arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Should we be unable to maintain sufficient insurance coverage in the future or experience losses in excess of the scope of our insurance coverage, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Changes in government policy could adversely affect our business. Our contract farming operations are in India, our refineries are located in Malaysia and the bulk of our expected biodiesel sales will be in the United States and Europe. In addition, the equipment for our plants is imported from, and our products are sold in, various other countries. There is a risk that actions of a government in any of these countries may adversely affect our ability to implement and operate our business. Government action or policy change in relation to access to lands and infrastructure, import and export regulations, environmental regulations, taxation, royalties and subsidies could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. In particular, upon significant changes in U.S. legislation, including changes in the renewable fuels standard or the biodiesel blenders excise tax credit, our offtake agreement with Valero can be renegotiated. Generally, however, a policy change in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or intend to operate, may inhibit our ability or the financial viability of our operations to export feedstock oil or the refined products that we market. This, in turn, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The Indian government has developed a National Policy on Biofuels, which establishes a framework for the industry until 2017. The policy limits the export of biofuels until domestic Indian usage mandates are met. If we are unable to produce biofuels domestically in India, the legislation is changed to limit the export of feedstock, such as Jatropha, or our existing export approval for unlimited amounts of Jatropha is repealed, we would be unable to sell Indian sourced Jatropha-based biodiesel into the key markets of the European Union and the United States which would adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Our revenues and expenditures are denominated in a number of currencies, including U.S. dollars, euros, Australian dollars, Indonesian rupiah, Indian rupees and Malaysian ringgit. Historically, we have experienced losses due to unhedged negative changes in exchange rate. Additionally, we have experienced foreign currency translation differences (which are held on our balance sheet in the foreign currency translation reserve) as a result of reporting consolidation of non-Australian subsidies. We have limited foreign currency hedging arrangements in place. As a result, our financial performance may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. We may not be able to execute and deliver on our Indonesian palm oleochemical joint venture project. Assuming that we are able to restart our Indonesian joint venture, our ability to develop our oleochemcial complex and generate financial return from the Indonesian joint venture relies on the ability to arrange substantial equity and debt financing, to construct and develop the site and to profitably operate the facility. At this stage of the project we can provide no assurances of our ability to finance, develop or operate the oleochemical facility. Further we can provide no protection from political risks inherent within the region of proposed operation. 14 Risks Related to Our Strategy We may not be able to restart refining operations. In January 2012 the company announced a substantial restructure of its operations. One result of the restructure was to cease the refining operations until such time as profitable trading opportunities present them self. The refining operations are currently held in care and maintenance. Should such profitable opportunities present themselves there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to restart refining operations. Further the Company can make no assurances as to its ability or cost thereof to attract necessary staff, obtain working capital lines and re-commission the equipment. We may be unable to shut down our Jatropha operations in India In January 2012, the Company announced a substantial restructure of its operations, including the Indian Jatropha operations. In October 2012 the Company announced that the Indian operations had been substantially downsized and the Company was focused on divesting its remaining Indian assets. The Company can provide no assurances that it will be able to sell its Indian assets or that it may not face unforeseen liabilities associated with closing the Indian operation. We may not be able to maintain and our Jatropha Contract Farmer network and as such our contract for Jatropha supply maybe not be fruitful. Another result of the restructure was to cease further planting operations and to dramatically reduce the field force in India. The result of which is a substantially reduced field network to liaise with the Jatropha contract farmers. To the extent that the contract farming acreage under contract bears yield there can be no assurances that the Company will be able to collect yield. Further the Company can make no assurances that it will be able to either collect based on its existing contract farmers nor that it will be able to sign up new contract farmers. The result of either the inability to collect Jatropha yield from existing contract farmers or sign up new farmers may result in significantly lower supply of Jatropha which would materially adversely effect the Company’s financial results. We have terminated our joint venture in Indonesia following our joint venture partners breach of material obligations. If we are unable to resolve the dispute we may suffer substantial financial loss. In July 2012, the Company announced that it had canceled its Indonesian Joint venture following the breach by the joint venture partner to perform material obligations. If the joint venture partners are unable to determine a way forward the Company may be materially adversely financially effected. The Company can provide no assurances that the project will continue or that despite being due that it will receive any financial or other compensation following the termination. We may be unable to sell our assets for fair market value or sell them at all. If the Company sells its assets, it may not be able to realize its original investment, nor an amount greater than the current debt obligations of the Company and as such upon the sale of its assets can provide no assurance as to the realization of proceeds for the Company or shareholders. Our future growth will depend on our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships with distributors and feedstock suppliers. Our future growth depends on our ability to establish and maintain relationships with third parties, including distributors and feedstock suppliers. We may not be able to establish strategic relationships with third parties on terms satisfactory to us or at all, and any arrangements that we enter into may not result in the type of collaborative relationship with the third party that we are seeking. Further, these third parties may not place sufficient importance on their relationship with us and may not perform their obligations as agreed. Any failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with distributors and feedstock suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 If we are unable to successfully enter new markets for Jatropha by-products, we may be unable to enhance by-product realization. One of our key strategies is to lower our effective biodiesel cost base through increased by-product value realization. Our ability to enhance the value of the by-products of our Jatropha-based biodiesel production process, such as Jatropha seed cake, will require us to enter and operate in new markets for us. Further, we can provide no assurances of having access to any Jatropha oil or seed cake. We cannot be sure of our ability to enter into these new markets, nor the market reaction to us as a new entrant. If we are unable or unsuccessful in these new markets, it would limit our ability to enhance the value of our by-products, which could have a significant adverse effect on our strategy and on our business, financial performance and financial condition. If our contract farming model does not perform to expectations our business may suffer. Our access to Jatropha oil is based on our ability to buy Jatropha seeds under our existing contract farming model. Despite our contract farmers being under definitive contract farming agreements we may be unable to effectively enforce these contracts in the event of a breach.. If we are unable to enforce our contract farming agreements or enter into additional contract farming agreements, this could have a significant adverse effect upon our business, financial performance and financial condition. We currently are not generating revenue from operations and thus we may be unable to fund our operational and capital requirements and service our existing indebtedness and we may be unable to obtain adequate financing on favorable terms to meet these needs. We currently expect that our cash flow will be used to fund operating losses and capital expenditures. Should we become operational we would also require substantial working capital. Additionally, as of the date of this annual report we are required to repay approximately A$32.9 million to redeem our outstanding convertible notes in May 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in generating sufficient revenue and we may require financing to meet our needs. Our ability to access to equity and debt capital and trade financing on favorable terms may be limited by factors such as: ·general economic and market conditions; ·conditions in energy markets; ·credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers; ·investor confidence in the industry; ·the operation of our refineries; ·our financial performance; and ·our levels of indebtedness. Our ability to access equity capital is limited without shareholder approval and we may be unable to obtain the required shareholder approval to obtain financing in future equity offerings. Our ability to access equity capital is also limited by ASX Listing Rule 7.1, which provides that a company must not, subject to specified exceptions (including approval by shareholders), issue or agree to issue during any 12-month period any equity securities, or other securities with rights to conversion to equity, if the number of those securities exceeds 25% of the number of securities in the same class on issue at the commencement of that 12-month period. Our ability to issue shares in certain subsequent offerings will be restricted by this 25% annual placement capacity to the extent that we are unable to obtain shareholder approval of the offerings. The sale of our wind farm assets may not generate sufficient funds to pay off the related loans and we may need to scale back planned initiatives as a result. Our wind farm assets and our office buildings in Malaysia and India are mortgaged or otherwise secured in relation to loan financings. In June 2012 we decided to discontinue our wind business, which may result in the sale of our wind farm asset. If we are unable to realize sufficient funds from the sale of these assets to fully pay off the loan associated with the mortgage on the wind farm assets or if we are unable to obtain additional financing as needed, we might need to reduce the scope of our operations and scale back expansion and development programs. 16 Risks Related to Our Industry A decline in the price of diesel or other fuel sources or an increase in their supply could constrain the selling price of our biodiesel. Biodiesel prices are influenced by market prices for petroleum diesel, the pricing of which is affected by global and domestic market prices for crude oil. The pricing of petroleum diesel is also subject to typical market movements and decreases when there is an increase in supply in the face of unchanged or decreased demand. To remain competitive, the price of biodiesel tends to decrease as the price of petroleum diesel decreases. As a result, any decline in petroleum prices will likely lead to lower prices for biodiesel. If the price of our inputs, such as palm oil feedstock, is greater than the price of our biodiesel in the market, we will be unable to make profitable sales and we would halt production. We did not operate our refinery for six months in fiscal 2012, nine months in fiscal 2011, nine months in fiscal 2010 and five months in fiscal 2009 due to negative spreads that existed between the potential sales price of biodiesel and the input costs to produce the biodiesel. Declines in the pricing of our biodiesel relative to the cost of the inputs for production may cause us to continue the halt in production in the future which may materially and adversely affect our performance. The biodiesel industry is a new industry and its continued development is subject to a number of risks and obstacles. Our primary product is biodiesel. The global biodiesel industry is at an early stage of development and acceptance as compared to petroleum-based fuels. Biodiesel has experienced significant growth only during that last five years and demand for biodiesel as our primary product may not grow as rapidly as expected or at all. Biodiesel and the global biodiesel industry, as a whole, also face a number of obstacles and drawbacks, including: ·gelling at lower temperatures than petroleum diesel, which can require the use of low percentage biodiesel blends in colder climates or the use of heated fuel tanks; ·potential water contamination that can complicate handling and long-term storage; ·reluctance on the part of some auto manufacturers and industry groups to endorse biodiesel and their recommendations against the use of biodiesel or high percentage biodiesel blends; ·potentially reduced fuel economy due to the lower energy content of biodiesel as compared with petroleum diesel; and ·potentially impaired growth due to a lack of infrastructure such as dedicated rail tanker cars and truck fleets, sufficient storage facilities, and refining and blending facilities. Delayed market acceptance of our products may adversely affect our pricing and profitability. The lack of infrastructure to store, ship and distribute our products may also increase our logistical costs and diminish our profitability. We may be subjected to new or amended standards for biodiesel from time to time and required to modify our production process or procure alternate or additional feedstock. New standards may be introduced and existing standards may be amended or repealed from time to time. The production of biodiesel that meets stringent quality standards is complex. Concerns about fuel quality may impact our ability to successfully market and sell our biodiesel. If we are unable to produce biodiesel that meets the industry quality standard, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our biodiesel could be negatively affected. In addition, actual or perceived problems with quality control in the industry generally may lead to a lack of consumer confidence in biodiesel. This could result in a decrease in demand or mandates for biodiesel, with a resulting decrease in revenue. A change to the quality standards for biodiesel in any market in which we sell biodiesel may require us to modify our production process or procure alternate or additional feedstock, which may affect our revenue and expenditure and adversely affect our results of operations. While we have no reason to believe that Jatropha will not be a suitable feedstock for our existing refineries, should Jatropha prove to not be suitable, we may need to modify our existing refineries and this could have an adverse affect on our financial condition. 17 We face significant competition from existing and new competitors as well as competing technologies and other clean energy sources. Our primary product is a substitute for mineral diesel and a global commodity and as such is highly cost competitive. There are already many global producers of biodiesel with which we currently compete. While these existing competitors are limited by installed refining capacity, we would expect further new entrants into the market if economic opportunities present themselves thereby increasing competition. In addition to existing and new direct competitors, as a relatively new industry with distribution channels still in the development stage, market forces may limit our access to end markets or make our costs of delivering product to end-users uncompetitive. Our future financial performance and earnings growth may be adversely affected if either of the above occurs. In addition, new technologies may be developed or implemented for alternative energy sources and products that use such energy sources. Advances in the development of fuels other than biodiesel, or the development of products that use energy sources other than diesel, such as gasoline hybrid vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles, could significantly reduce demand for biodiesel and thus affect our sales. Biodiesel also faces competition from fuel additives that help petroleum diesel burn cleaner and therefore reduce the comparative environmental benefits of biodiesel in relation to petroleum diesel. Other clean energy sources such as liquefied petroleum gas, hydrogen and electricity from clean sources may be more cost-effective to produce, store, distribute or use, more environmentally friendly, or otherwise more successfully developed for commercial production than our products. These other energy sources may also receive greater government support than our products in the form of subsidies, incentives or minimum use requirements. As a result, demand for our products may decline and our business model may no longer be viable and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The introduction, increase in the availability or reduction in costs of alternative energy sources may materially and adversely affect the demand for our products and our financial performance. Any increase in competition arising from an increase in the number or size of competitors or from competing technologies or other clean energy sources may result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margins, loss of our market share and departure of key management, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Unless an active trading market develops for our securities, you may not be able to sell your ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares were delisted from trading on The NASDAQ Global Market effective July 9, 2012 and currently trade on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “MNELF” and on the Australian Stock Exchange under the symbol “MBT.” Although we are a reporting company, currently there is only a limited trading market for our ordinary shares and a more active trading market may never develop or, if it does develop, may not be maintained. Failure to develop or maintain an active trading market will have a generally negative effect on the price of our ordinary shares, and you may be unable to sell your ordinary shares or any attempted sale of such ordinary shares may have the effect of lowering the market price and therefore your investment could be a partial or complete loss. As a foreign private issuer, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices which may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices.. As a company incorporated in Australia and listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, or ASX, we expect to follow our home country practice with respect to the composition of our board of directors and nominations committee and executive sessions. The corporate governance practice and requirements in Australia do not require us as to have a majority of our board of directors to be independent, do not require us to establish a nominations committee, and do not require us to hold regular executive sessions where only independent directors shall be present. Such Australian home country practices may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. 18 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. We do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. However, we must make a separate determination each fiscal year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending June 30, 2012 or any future fiscal year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any fiscal year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during the fiscal year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any fiscal year during which a U.S. holder (as defined in “Item 10.E - Additional Information Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”) holds an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holder. See “Item 10.E - Additional Information Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are quoted in Australian dollars on the ASX and in U.S. dollars on the OTC Bulletin Board. Movements in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate may adversely affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares. In the past year the Australian dollar has generally appreciated against the U.S. dollar. Any continuation of this trend may positively affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. However, this trend may not continue and may be reversed. If the Australian dollar weakens against the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar price of the ordinary shares could decline, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. Risks Relating to Takeovers Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. We are incorporated in Australia and are subject to the takeovers laws of Australia. Among other things, we are subject to the Australian Corporations Act 2001, or the Corporations Act. Subject to a range of exceptions, the Corporations Act prohibits the acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in our issued voting shares if the acquisition of that interest will lead to a person’s voting power in us increasing from 20% or below to more than 20%, or increasing from a starting point that is above 20% and below 90%. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. This may have the ancillary effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit our shareholders’ strategic opportunities to sell their ordinary shares and may restrict the ability of our shareholders to obtain a premium from such transactions. Our Constitution and other Australian laws and regulations applicable to us may adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. As an Australian company we are subject to different corporate requirements than a corporation organized under the laws of the United States. Our Constitution, as well as the Corporations Act, set forth various rights and obligations that are unique to us as an Australian company. These requirements operate differently than from many U.S. companies and may limit or otherwise adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. For more information, you should carefully review the summary of these matters set forth under the section entitled, “Item 10.B — Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association” as well as our Constitution. 19 