D. Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risks that we believe are applicable to our business. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before you decide to buy, sell or hold our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Additional risks not presently known to us, or risks that do not seems significant today, may also impair our business operations in the future. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have a history of net losses and there is a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We had a loss for the twelve months ended June 30, 2011 of A$21.7 million, and as of June 30, 2011, the company had a current assets less current liability surplus of A$7.2 million and a net asset deficiency of A$29.7 million at balance date. The net asset deficiency is primarily as a result of the impairment of refinery assets during the financial year ended June 30, 2010. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations, raise further adequate funds and defer certain other capital commitments. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which has been assessed based on detailed cash flow forecasts extending out twelve months from the date of our most recent financial report. The cash flow forecasts from operations are based on the forecasted cash flows required to sustain the business, cash on hand at June 30, 2011 of A$15.8 million, the ongoing receivables collection associated with historic sapling sales, contributions from forecast sales of product and further capital raising. Our ability of the Group to continue as a going concern in the ordinary course of business and to achieve the business growth strategies and objectives will be dependent upon our ability to collect amounts owing under our receivables, defer the capital commitment relating to the second biodiesel plant or raise further debt or equity to meet the Group’s commitments. The debt or equity funding referred to above has not been agreed to at the date of this report. Mission is in discussions with the turnkey contractor about the finalisation and handover of the second biodiesel plant. When this is finalized, the final installment will be due and payable. Mission is in discussions with the contractor to defer the payments after handover. If we are unable to generate sufficient alternative revenue to offset the losses from our primary business, our business and financial condition will suffer a significant adverse effect. Revenue from our primary business, the cultivation and conversion of Jatropha seeds and the production of Jatropha-based biodiesel, may not exceed our expenses for at least the next two years. Should the cultivation and conversion of Jatropha seeds and the production of Jatropha-based biodiesel not produce revenue in excess of our expenses there is substantial risk that we will not be able to generate enough alternative revenue to reverse our pattern of historical losses and negative cash flow, which would have a significant adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our substantial level of non-current debt could impair our ability to service our indebtedness, finance our operations and compete with less leveraged players in the industry. We have substantial non-current indebtedness. As of June 30, 2011, we had total non-current indebtedness of A$44.3 million, including approximately A$42.2 million outstanding under our convertible notes, and A$2.1 million of other debt. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: 7 · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our indebtedness obligations under the convertible notes, exposing us to the risk of default, which could result in a foreclosure on our assets, which, in turn, would negatively affect our ability to operate as a going concern; · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our other indebtedness; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and working capital; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · increase our cost of borrowing; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness, as well as economic conditions, may prevent us from successfully refinancing. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business and economic conditions and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industry in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and to meet our other obligations. Any limitation on our ability to pay principal of, and interest on, the convertible notes would likely reduce the value of our ordinary shares. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligation, including those obligations under our convertible notes, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the convertible notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our convertible notes, may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. If we do not meet certain EPA requirements under Renewable Fuels Standard 2 ("RFS2"), fuels produced from palm oil may not be able to generate retroactive Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs, which are commercially necessary to supply biodiesel produced from palm oil into the United States, which would limit our market opportunity and jeopardize our near term financial viability. In February 2010, the EPA finalized revisions to the National Renewable Fuel Standard. The new rule, RFS2, incorporates changes mandated by the U.S. Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and amends the original created under the U.S. Energy Policy Act of 2005. In December 2010, the EPA completed the roll out of the RFS2 program by setting renewable fuel quality requirements for 2011. At the time RFS2 became effective on July 1, 2010, the EPA had not completed its lifecycle analysis of several common biodiesel feedstocks, including palm oil. Under the prior rule, fuels produced from these feedstocks were not recognized as having established fuel pathways and therefore did not generate RINs. A RIN is a 38-character numeric code that is generated by the producer or importer of renewable fuel representing gallons of renewable fuel produced/imported and assigned to batches of renewable fuel that are transferred (change of ownership) to others. RINs are then turned into the EPA each year by petroleum refiners to prove that they have blended the required amount of renewable fuel under RFS2. Therefore, biodiesel that does not generate a RIN has a very limited market in the U.S. In the final rule adopted in December 2010, the EPA allowed the generation of retroactive or “delayed RINs” for fuels produced by grain sorghum ethanol, pulpwood biofuel, palm oil biodiesel and canola oil biodiesel. To be eligible, fuel producers must meet certain requirements, including having a commercialized production process that existed on July 1, 2010 and completing the EPA petition process. We have historically used palm oil as feedstock for our biodiesel production. If we are not able to meet these requirements, we may suffer a significant adverse effect on our business, financial performance and financial condition and could cause us to cease operations. Additionally, our offtake agreement with Valero Energy Corporation is contingent upon meeting these requirements and we will not have any near term sales under that agreement if we fail to meet these requirements. 8 If Jatropha oil is not approved as a feedstock under Renewable Fuels Standard 2, biodiesel produced from Jatropha oil will not generate RINs which will significantly limit our market opportunity and could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial performance and financial condition. Under RFS2, biofuels produced from Jatropha oil are not yet recognized by the EPA as having established fuel pathways and therefore do not generate RINs. Jatropha-based biodiesel must demonstrate that it meets certain environmental and green house gas requirements prior to its approval by the EPA as a feedstock eligible to generate RINs under RFS2. There is no assurance that this feedstock will meet the RFS2 requirements or that approval of this feedstock will be achieved. We have historically used palm oil as feedstock for our biodiesel production and our future strategy is conditioned upon the viability of Jatropha oil as a feedstock. Palm oil is not presently, and in the future may not be, approved under RFS2. Any significant delay or the failure of palm or Jatropha oil to be accepted under the RFS2 requirements in the United States could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial performance and financial condition and could cause us to cease operations. If more of our palm oil suppliers are not certified as compliant with the Renewable Energy Directive, our ability to sell palm-based biodiesel into the European Union will be significantly constrained and the results of our operations will be adversely impacted. In July 2010, the European Union introduced, effective December 5, 2010, the Renewable Energy Directive, which requires palm-based biodiesel to be based on new sustainability criteria. This will require the use of certified palm oil. Our production facilities have been registered and are compliant with the Renewable Energy Directive, although the majority of our suppliers of the palm oil feedstock that is used in our production facilities have not yet been certified. This includes Cargill and Felda, who have historically been our primary suppliers of palm oil, along with a range of palm oil producers and traders that supply to us. Failure by our suppliers of palm oil feedstock to satisfy the Renewable Energy Directive could affect our ability to sell palm-based biodiesel into the European Union., The European Union has been and remains a key market for us. Any limitation on our ability to sell biodiesel into the European Union could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial performance and financial condition. The design and technology of our refineries may be unable to meet future biodiesel specifications and further capital expenditures may be required. Specifications in the United States require biodiesel to meet the cold soak filtration test. For a discussion of, see “Item 4.B — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Biodiesel Production — Refining Process.” We are also in the process of retrofitting our refineries with a distillation column to meet current quality specifications for our biodiesel despite the use of varying feedstock. If the distillation column does not perform to its specifications, we may be unable to meet the requirements of the cold soak filtration test and we would be unable to meet the current performance specifications and sell compliant biodiesel into the United States market. The specifications for biodiesel are continually evolving and are subject to further change. Further capital expenditures may be required to ensure that our refineries meet new specifications, adversely affecting our financial performance and financial position. There is also no assurance that the equipment and technology used in our capital improvements will achieve performance specifications. The failure of utilized equipment and technology in this regard may adversely affect our business. The operation and maintenance of our refineries involve significant risks that could result in disruptions in production or reduced output. The operations of our refineries are exposed to significant risks, including: · failure of equipment or processes; · operator or maintenance errors; · labor disruptions; 9 · extended and unscheduled interruptions to production; · accidents; and · damage to equipment and disaster whether arising from the actions or omissions by us or our employees or from external factors. There are operational hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing industries, such as fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, and transportation accidents. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension or termination of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. In addition, our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operation hazards described above, and we may not be able to renew our insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See “Item 3.D — Key Information — Risk Factors — Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability risks.” If we are unable to replace the sales historically generated by one off term contracts this may significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. In 2011, our biofuel revenue was generated primarily from two new customers, with our by-products readily sold to a number of customers. Notwithstanding our continuing efforts to further diversify our customer base, Trafigura Beheer B.V. Amsterdam, a European oil trading company, contributed over 82% of our biofuel sales in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010. Our contracts with Trafigura and our new customers in 2011 have since expired and we cannot assure you that we will be able to source new customers and establish and maintain long-term relationships with such customers. As a result, if we are unable to replace the sales historically generated, such inability may significantly reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. An increase in cost or an interruption in the supply of our feedstock may inhibit production and adversely affect our financial performance. The operation of our refineries is dependent on our ability to procure substantial quantities of suitable quality feedstock. While the commercial oil yields from our feedstock cultivation business of Jatropha ramp up, palm oil is likely to be our primary feedstock. At this time, our palm oil supply is sourced primarily from Felda through a contracted supply agreement and secondarily from a range of palm oil producers and traders. Crude palm oil accounted for approximately 85% of our input costs associated with our production of biodiesel in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, respectively. The failure to procure a sufficient supply of raw materials satisfying our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to produce our products or could increase our costs. Any interruption to the supply of suitable quality feedstock may result in disruptions in production or reduced output, which may materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, our financial results are substantially dependant on the prices for our feedstock. A substantial increase in feedstock price relative to the value of our end products would adversely affect our financial performance. Although we may attempt to offset the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into arrangements with our customers on a feedstock price plus contract basis through which we receive a predetermined margin over the price of the feedstock or by engaging in transactions that involve exchange-traded futures contracts (or other contractual arrangements securing future commodity prices), the amount and duration of these hedging and risk mitigation activities may vary substantially over time. These activities also involve substantial risks. Additionally, if a negative spread exists between our input costs to produce biodiesel and the potential sales price of the biodiesel, we will be unable to profitably produce product and to generate revenue. We did not operate for nine months in each of fiscal 2011 and 2010 due to negative spreads that existed during those periods. Future increases in purchased feedstock costs may prevent us from resuming production and may materially and adversely affect our performance and ability to continue as a going concern. 10 Our contract farming model is subject to inherent risks and if we cannot improve the results of poor performing farmers in certain states, our Jatropha oil yield and the results of our operations will be adversely impacted. We have diversified our operations to include the cultivation of Jatropha to meet our feedstock supply requirements internally in the future and to protect us from increases in cost and interruptions in delivery from external suppliers. In that regard, we have entered into contracts with farmers in five different states in India to grow the Jatropha plants and provide the seeds that are crushed to produce feedstock oil. However, there is no assurance that the contracted farmers will be able meet our expected yields of seeds for feedstock oil whether due to the poor farm management of individual farmers or the poor health, low productivity or mortality of the Jatropha plants. We employ a continuous review of the condition and success of the contract farming across the wide geographic area in which we have acreage under contract and we have noted differing results from state to state. If we are unable to enhance the results of the low performing states, we will have to focus our operations in the areas giving the best results and a lower than expected yield of oil will occur. Given that our current strategy is based on contract farming and that the Jatropha oil is primarily an agricultural product subject to agronomic risks, it is unlikely that all recorded acreage will provide us with Jatropha oil and we can provide no assurances as to our Jatropha oil yield. If our farmers are unable to obtain financing, they may be unable to perform under their contracts and our feedstock supply could be disrupted. The model for our feedstock cultivation strategy relies on a contract farming agreement with our farmers. To assist our farmers in their purchase of saplings from us and to provide the necessary working capital to operate their farms until their acreage produces yield, we have facilitated arrangements with certain Indian banks to provide loans to some of the farmers to finance their planting, including purchases from us of saplings and materials required for the cultivation of Jatropha plants. If we cannot facilitate such loans on similar terms or at all in the future, the farmers with whom we have entered into contracts will likely be unable to pay for the saplings provided by us and therefore may limit our ability to grow our business. An inability to collect payment on accounts receivable for sold saplings may require us to alter our intended growth of acreage under contract, which ultimately could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, the inability of our contract farmers to obtain financing or their failure to perform under their contracts for any reason would cause disruptions in our future feedstock supply chain and subject us to risks of disruption and reduction in output at our plants. We have experienced and may in the future experience volatile capacity utilization which may adversely affect our results of operations. As we ramp up our Jatropha cultivation, we remain reliant on palm oil as a feedstock. If the price of palm oil is greater than the value of our biodiesel, which is priced relative to ultra low sulphur diesel (“ULSD”), we may not be able to profitably sell biodiesel into the immediate cash payment and delivery market. Our ability to supply palm-based biodiesel profitably is based on having positive margins where our input costs are lower than the value of our refined product. We are unable to influence the price of palm oil or the price of biodiesel. Resultantly, our biodiesel profitability is reliant on the existence of a positive spread between these two commodities. As we only operate when a positive operating margin exists, we have and expect to continue to have in the future erratic capacity utilization which may adversely affect our results of operations. We have suffered and may continue to suffer low capacity utilization if we are unable to secure term contracts. Given the volatility of profit margins on biodiesel production due to fluctuations in commodity pricing for palm oil (our major input until our Jatropha supply matures) and the value of our finished product, we have not converted palm oil to biodiesel unless we have a committed contract customer willing to accept pricing based on our cost of purchasing feedstock and earning a positive margin from refining. Historically, we have had few such contract customers and their purchases have been insufficient to utilize our full refining capacity, resulting in our historic low capacity utilization. If palm oil is approved under RFS2, the contract with Valero would meet these criteria. However, if palm oil does not receive approval, there is no assurance that we can find another customer willing to do so. 11 We have suffered and may continue to suffer low capacity utilization if we are unable to secure material volumes of biodiesel sales under the Malaysian Biodiesel mandate. After numerous years discussing the possible implementation of a biodiesel blending mandate in Malaysia, the Malaysian Government introduced a scheme to mandate a 5% biodiesel blend into commercial diesel sales in the Central region of Malaysia. In addition the scheme was for a lower volume than previously communicated to Malaysian Biodiesel producers. Accordingly we secured relatively low volumes of biodiesel sales under this scheme. If the scheme is not extended, or cancelled altogether, or commercially viable quantities are not secured by us, this may adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to perform under the offtake agreement with Valero or if there is a breach, termination or reduction by Valero of its commitments under the agreement, our financial performance and condition would be adversely impacted. Our offtake agreement with Valero is currently for 60 million gallons per annum of biodiesel, which represents 57% of our nameplate refining capacity upon title transfer of our second refinery to us. This is currently the only major long-term biodiesel customer contract that we have. Changes in economic, regulatory or other factors could have a significant effect on this customer or our contractual relationship. Due to recent regulatory changes, our palm and Jatropha-based biodiesel is not compliant with governmental mandates in the United States, the intended market for the biodiesel under the offtake agreement. In February 2010, the EPA finalized RFS2, which requires our feedstock of palm and Jatropha oil to meet certain environmental and green house gas requirements prior to approval. Palm oil and Jatropha oil are not presently, and in the future may not be, approved under RFS2. Additionally, ASTM International has recently revised the U.S. standard ASTMD6751 to include specifications for a Cold Soak Filter Test. We are currently installing additional equipment that will enable both our refineries to meet the standard. However, our biodiesel is presently not compliant with RFS2 and does not meet the ASTMD6751 standard as is contractually required under the offtake agreement. As a result, we do not expect to supply biodiesel to Valero under the offtake agreement until these regulatory hurdles are resolved. The term of the offtake agreement with Valero does not begin nor do payment obligations for Valero arise under the offtake agreement until the first shipment of biodiesel to Valero. The termination of, or a significant reduction in biodiesel purchased under, the Valero offtake agreement for any reason, including our inability to perform under the agreement, would materially affect our revenue and would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if Valero failed to pay us or was delayed in its payments under the offtake agreement, we would be adversely affected to the extent that we were unable to find other customers at the same level of profitability. A failure to make payments under the offtake agreement with Valero or another material breach of the offtake agreement would have a significant adverse affect on our business, financial performance and financial condition. If we are unable to enter into sufficient offtake agreements for our second biodiesel refinery, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We have contracted to supply Valero with 60 million gallons per annum of biodiesel, which represents 57% of the nameplate refining capacity of our two refineries upon title transfer of the second refinery to us. If we are unable to increase our contracted capacity utilization to higher levels, our ability to generate revenue will be limited and our financial condition will be adversely affected. The offtake agreement does not expressly prohibit our entry into other offtake agreements. However, our contractual relationship with Valero may affect our ability to secure other offtake agreements, which could reduce our profitability and limit our ability to grow. Our ability to supply biodiesel under the offtake agreement with Valero may be adversely affected by markets risks that are beyond our control. Under the biodiesel offtake agreement, Valero will purchase our entire production of Jatropha-based biodiesel up to 60 million gallons per annum with an option for Valero to double this amount. We have the option to cover any production shortfall from the contracted amount with palm-based biodiesel. However, with a pricing formula benchmarked off Gulf Coast Harbor ULSD, our ability to supply palm-based biodiesel is subject to favorable pricing for the palm oil and Gulf Coast Harbor ULSD and the availability of palm oil. Already subject to fluctuations in price and availability, new or revised standards in key markets may impose requirements to limit production of palm-based diesel from sustainable crude palm oil, further limiting availability and subjecting the palm oil to unfavorable commodity price movements. If we are unable to source palm oil at favorable prices and a negative spread exists between our input costs and the potential sales price of the biodiesel, we will be unable to make profitable sales and we would halt production. As a result, our ability to supply biodiesel to Valero under the offtake agreement may be adversely affected. See “— An increase in cost or an interruption in the supply of our feedstock may inhibit production and adversely affect our financial performance.” 12 Our inability to meet margin calls on hedged positions would adversely affect our financial condition. To maximize and protect the profitability of the offtake agreement with Valero, we may enter into hedging positions on both palm oil and ULSD. Upon entering the hedging positions and the inherent volatility in the commodity markets, we will likely be required to make margin call payments from time to time. Inability to meet such margin calls would adversely affect our financial condition and financial performance. We may suffer losses due to sales of competing products that infringe on our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, domain names and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that the measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to prevent any misappropriation of our intellectual property, or that our competitors will not independently develop alternative technologies that are equivalent or superior to technologies based on our intellectual property. In the event that the steps we have taken and the protection afforded by law do not adequately safeguard our proprietary technology, we could suffer losses due to the sales of competing products that exploit our intellectual property, and our profitability would be adversely affected. If we are subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others, the defense of these claims could drain our resources and any adverse determination could adversely impact or halt our biodiesel production. Our biodiesel refineries include contracts with Crown Iron Works, Inc., or Crown, and Axens for the supply of our proprietary systems, over which they have intellectual property that they have licensed to us. This intellectual property includes the operating procedures and technical schematics of our biodiesel refineries, which are required to operate and maintain the plants. The unauthorized use or disclosure of Crown’s, Axens’ or our intellectual property or the infringement by us of another person’s intellectual property right may adversely affect our financial performance. To the best of our knowledge, our patented process does not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. However, intellectual property rights are complex and there exists the risk that our process may infringe, or be alleged to infringe, another party’s intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or manufacturing processes or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Any inability to obtain and maintain all the required licenses and permits related to our business and the resulting increased compliance costs may adversely affect our financial performance. We are required to hold or obtain a number of licenses and permits, including environmental and those related to materials handling, in various jurisdictions in order to implement and operate our business. In particular our biodiesel refining operation in Malaysia holds a Lembaga Minyak Sawit Malaysia license (which allows for the buying, selling, movement and importation of palm oil products) and a Kementerian Perusahaan Perladangan & Komoditi license (which allows the production of biodiesel). The Lembaga Minyak Sawit Malaysia license is renewed annually and is currently valid until June 30, 2012. We have no reason to believe that this license will not be renewed, although renewal is not assured. The Kementerian Perusahaan Perladangan & Komoditi license is renewed every three years and is currently valid until July 20, 2012 and we have no reason to believe that this license will not be renewed, although renewal is not assured. In particular, our Jatropha operations in India hold a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (“FIRB”) license (which allows investment by Mission into its Indian feedstock business and approves the activity of being engaged in the contract farming of Jatropha Curcas and utilization of the Jatropha oil for domestic or export markets). This license is in place and is not required to be renewed. There is a risk that we will not comply with the ongoing requirements imposed under those licenses or permits, although we are not aware of any compliance deficiency that jeopardizes our standing as a licensee. There is also a risk that the licenses and permits required, or the conditions imposed on us under them, will change from time to time. Our ongoing compliance costs may increase as a result. Either of the above may adversely affect our financial performance. 13 We are subject to environmental regulations, the compliance with which imposes substantial costs on us and the violation of which could result in penalties and other liabilities. Laws dealing with protection of the environment provide for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such laws and establish, in certain circumstances, obligations to remediate facilities and locations where operations are conducted. We may incur substantial costs in the future as part of our continued efforts to comply with these environmental laws and to avoid violations of them. We may experience a significant chemical or biodiesel spill at our refineries or we may experience a chemical spill or human ingestion of toxic materials during the Jatropha crude oil crushing process. If any of these events occur or if we otherwise fail to comply with the applicable environmental or other regulations, we could be subject to significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions of our operations, and our business reputation and profitability could be adversely affected. Any amendments to the environmental laws could impose substantial pollution control measures that could require us to make significant expenditures to modify our production process or change the design of our products to limit actual or potential impact to the environment. Moreover, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make significant additional expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability risks. Our insurance arrangements may not adequately protect us against liability for all losses, including but not limited to environmental losses, property damage, public liability or losses arising from business interruption and product liability risk. Additionally, we may be unable to renew our existing insurance arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Should we be unable to maintain sufficient insurance coverage in the future or experience losses in excess of the scope of our insurance coverage, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Changes in government policy could adversely affect our business. Our contract farming operations are in India, our refineries are located in Malaysia and the bulk of our expected biodiesel sales will be in the United States and Europe. In addition, the equipment for our plants is imported from, and our products are sold in, various other countries. There is a risk that actions of a government in any of these countries may adversely affect our ability to implement and operate our business. Government action or policy change in relation to access to lands and infrastructure, import and export regulations, environmental regulations, taxation, royalties and subsidies could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. In particular, upon significant changes in U.S. legislation, including changes in the renewable fuels standard or the biodiesel blenders excise tax credit, our offtake agreement with Valero can be renegotiated. Generally, however, a policy change in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or intend to operate, may inhibit our ability or the financial viability of our operations to export feedstock oil or the refined products that we market. This, in turn, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The Indian government has developed a National Policy on Biofuels, which establishes a framework for the industry until 2017. The policy limits the export of biofuels until domestic Indian usage mandates are met. If we are unable to produce biofuels domestically in India, the legislation is changed to limit the export of feedstock, such as Jatropha, or our existing export approval for unlimited amounts of Jatropha is repealed, we would be unable to sell Indian sourced Jatropha-based biodiesel into the key markets of the European Union and the United States which would adversely affect our operations and financial performance. 14 Our financial performance may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Our revenues and expenditures are denominated in a number of currencies, including U.S. dollars, euros, Australian dollars, Indian rupees and Malaysian ringgit. Historically, we have experienced losses due to unhedged negative changes in exchange rate. Additionally, we have experienced foreign currency translation differences (which are held on our balance sheet in the foreign currency translation reserve) as a result of reporting consolidation of non-Australian subsidies. We have limited foreign currency hedging arrangements in place. As a result, our financial performance may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Strategy Our future growth will depend on our ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships with distributors and feedstock suppliers. Our future growth depends on our ability to establish and maintain relationships with third parties, including distributors and feedstock suppliers. We may not be able to establish strategic relationships with third parties on terms satisfactory to us or at all, and any arrangements that we enter into may not result in the type of collaborative relationship with the third party that we are seeking. Further, these third parties may not place sufficient importance on their relationship with us and may not perform their obligations as agreed. Any failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with distributors and feedstock suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to effectively manage our planned expansion, we may fail to meet our strategies and objectives and our financial performance could be materially and adversely impacted. The further expansion of our refining and production, including our biodiesel refining, upstream vegetable oil extraction and processing is one of our key growth strategies. Additionally our planned Jatropha operations expansion requires us to identify suitable locations for plantations and related infrastructure (such as nurseries, warehouses, ports and mills) at competitive prices. Even if we successfully identify suitable locations, we may be unable to expand our business into these new locations if potential competitors enter the market before us. In addition, we may not have the necessary management or financial resources to oversee the successful and timely development of plantations and construction of new facilities. Additionally, our ability to generate cash from existing operations may be slower than expected or not eventuate at all, resulting in the requirement for further funding to achieve our expansion plans. Our expansion plans could also be affected by cost overruns, failures or delays in obtaining government approvals of necessary permits and our inability to secure the necessary equipment. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our planned expansion or achieve our expansion plans at all. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully enter new markets for Jatropha by-products, we may be unable to enhance by-product realization. One of our key strategies is to lower our effective biodiesel cost base through increased by-product value realization. Our ability to enhance the value of the by-products of our Jatropha-based biodiesel production process, such as Jatropha seed cake, will require us to enter and operate in new markets for us. We cannot be sure of our ability to enter into these new markets, nor the market reaction to us as a new entrant. If we are unable or unsuccessful in these new markets, it would limit our ability to enhance the value of our by-products, which could have a significant adverse effect on our strategy and on our business, financial performance and financial condition. If our contract farming model does not perform to expectations our business may suffer. Our access to Jatropha oil is based on our ability to buy Jatropha seeds under our existing contract farming model. Despite our contract farmers being under definitive contract farming agreements we may be unable to effectively enforce these contracts in the event of a breach. Our expansion strategy includes entering into further contract farming agreements to increase our access to Jatropha seeds. If we are unable to enforce our contract farming agreements or enter into additional contract farming agreements, this could have a significant adverse effect upon our business, financial performance and financial condition. 15 We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to fund our operational and capital requirements and service our existing indebtedness and we may be unable to obtain adequate financing on favorable terms to meet these needs. We expect that over the next several years, a portion of our cash flow will be used to fund operating losses and capital expenditures. We will also require substantial working capital and, given that we may enter into derivative transactions in connection with our offtake agreement with Valero, margin call capital in the future. Additionally, as of the date of this annual report we are required to repay approximately A$45.8 million to redeem our outstanding convertible notes in May 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in generating sufficient revenue and we may require financing to meet our needs. Our ability to access to equity and debt capital and trade financing on favorable terms may be limited by factors such as: · general economic and market conditions; · conditions in energy markets; · credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers; · investor confidence in the industry; · the operation of our refineries; · our financial performance; and · our levels of indebtedness. Our ability to access equity capital is limited without shareholder approval and we may be unable to obtain the required shareholder approval to obtain financing in future equity offerings. Our ability to access equity capital is also limited by ASX Listing Rule 7.1, which provides that a company must not, subject to specified exceptions (including approval by shareholders), issue or agree to issue during any 12-month period any equity securities, or other securities with rights to conversion to equity, if the number of those securities exceeds 15% of the number of securities in the same class on issue at the commencement of that 12-month period. Our ability to issue shares in certain subsequent offerings will be restricted by this 15% annual placement capacity to the extent that we are unable to obtain shareholder approval of the offerings. The sale of our wind farm assets may not generate sufficient funds to pay off the related loans and we may need to scale back planned initiatives as a result. Our wind farm assets and our office buildings in Malaysia and India are mortgaged or otherwise secured in relation to loan financings. We are exploring discontinuing our wind business, which may result in the sale of our wind farm asset. If we are unable to realize sufficient funds from the sale of these assets to fully pay off the loan associated with the mortgage on the wind farm assets or if we are unable to obtain additional financing as needed, we might need to reduce the scope of our operations and scale back expansion and development programs. 16 Risks Related to Our Industry A decline in the price of diesel or other fuel sources or an increase in their supply could constrain the selling price of our biodiesel. Biodiesel prices are influenced by market prices for petroleum diesel, the pricing of which is affected by global and domestic market prices for crude oil. The pricing of petroleum diesel is also subject to typical market movements and decreases when there is an increase in supply in the face of unchanged or decreased demand. To remain competitive, the price of biodiesel tends to decrease as the price of petroleum diesel decreases. As a result, any decline in petroleum prices will likely lead to lower prices for biodiesel. If the price of our inputs, such as palm oil feedstock, is greater than the price of our biodiesel in the market, we will be unable to make profitable sales and we would halt production. We did not operate our refinery for nine months of fiscal 2011, nine months in fiscal 2010 and five months in fiscal 2009 due to negative spreads that existed between the potential sales price of biodiesel and the input costs to produce the biodiesel. Declines in the pricing of our biodiesel relative to the cost of the inputs for production may cause us to halt production in the future which may materially and adversely affect our performance. The biodiesel industry is a new industry and its continued development is subject to a number of risks and obstacles. Our primary product is biodiesel. The global biodiesel industry is at an early stage of development and acceptance as compared to petroleum-based fuels. Biodiesel has experienced significant growth only during that last five years and demand for biodiesel as our primary product may not grow as rapidly as expected or at all. Biodiesel and the global biodiesel industry, as a whole, also face a number of obstacles and drawbacks, including: · gelling at lower temperatures than petroleum diesel, which can require the use of low percentage biodiesel blends in colder climates or the use of heated fuel tanks; · potential water contamination that can complicate handling and long-term storage; · reluctance on the part of some auto manufacturers and industry groups to endorse biodiesel and their recommendations against the use of biodiesel or high percentage biodiesel blends; · potentially reduced fuel economy due to the lower energy content of biodiesel as compared with petroleum diesel; and · potentially impaired growth due to a lack of infrastructure such as dedicated rail tanker cars and truck fleets, sufficient storage facilities, and refining and blending facilities. Delayed market acceptance of our products may adversely affect our pricing and profitability. The lack of infrastructure to store, ship and distribute our products may also increase our logistical costs and diminish our profitability. We may be subjected to new or amended standards for biodiesel from time to time and required to modify our production process or procure alternate or additional feedstock. New standards may be introduced and existing standards may be amended or repealed from time to time. The production of biodiesel that meets stringent quality standards is complex. Concerns about fuel quality may impact our ability to successfully market and sell our biodiesel. If we are unable to produce biodiesel that meets the industry quality standard, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our biodiesel could be negatively affected. In addition, actual or perceived problems with quality control in the industry generally may lead to a lack of consumer confidence in biodiesel. This could result in a decrease in demand or mandates for biodiesel, with a resulting decrease in revenue. A change to the quality standards for biodiesel in any market in which we sell biodiesel may require us to modify our production process or procure alternate or additional feedstock, which may affect our revenue and expenditure and adversely affect our results of operations. While we have no reason to believe that Jatropha will not be a suitable feedstock for our existing refineries, should Jatropha prove to not be suitable, we may need to modify our existing refineries and this could have an adverse affect on our financial condition. We face significant competition from existing and new competitors as well as competing technologies and other clean energy sources. Our primary product is a substitute for mineral diesel and a global commodity and as such is highly cost competitive. There are already many global producers of biodiesel with which we currently compete. While these existing competitors are limited by installed refining capacity, we would expect further new entrants into the market if economic opportunities present themselves thereby increasing competition. In addition to existing and new direct competitors, as a relatively new industry with distribution channels still in the development stage, market forces may limit our access to end markets or make our costs of delivering product to end-users uncompetitive. Our future financial performance and earnings growth may be adversely affected if either of the above occurs. 17 In addition, new technologies may be developed or implemented for alternative energy sources and products that use such energy sources. Advances in the development of fuels other than biodiesel, or the development of products that use energy sources other than diesel, such as gasoline hybrid vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles, could significantly reduce demand for biodiesel and thus affect our sales. Biodiesel also faces competition from fuel additives that help petroleum diesel burn cleaner and therefore reduce the comparative environmental benefits of biodiesel in relation to petroleum diesel. Other clean energy sources such as liquefied petroleum gas, hydrogen and electricity from clean sources may be more cost-effective to produce, store, distribute or use, more environmentally friendly, or otherwise more successfully developed for commercial production than our products. These other energy sources may also receive greater government support than our products in the form of subsidies, incentives or minimum use requirements. As a result, demand for our products may decline and our business model may no longer be viable and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The introduction, increase in the availability or reduction in costs of alternative energy sources may materially and adversely affect the demand for our products and our financial performance. Any increase in competition arising from an increase in the number or size of competitors or from competing technologies or other clean energy sources may result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margins, loss of our market share and departure of key management, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares As a foreign private issuer, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices in lieu of certain NASDAQ Global Market requirements applicable to U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. As a foreign private issuer whose ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices in lieu of certain NASDAQ Global Market requirements. A foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, each NASDAQ Global Market requirement with which it does not comply followed by a description of its applicable home country practice. As a company incorporated in Australia and listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, or ASX, we expect to follow our home country practice with respect to the composition of our board of directors and nominations committee and executive sessions. Unlike the requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, the corporate governance practice and requirements in Australia do not require us as to have a majority of our board of directors to be independent, do not require us to establish a nominations committee, and do not require us to hold regular executive sessions where only independent directors shall be present. Such Australian home country practices may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. We do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. However, we must make a separate determination each fiscal year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending June 30, 2011 or any future fiscal year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any fiscal year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during the fiscal year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any fiscal year during which a U.S. holder (as defined in “Item 10.E - Additional Information Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”) holds an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holder. See “Item 10.E - Additional Information Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 18 Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are quoted in Australian dollars on the ASX and in U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market. Movements in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate may adversely affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares. In the past year the Australian dollar has generally appreciated against the U.S. dollar. Any continuation of this trend may positively affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. However, this trend may not continue and may be reversed. If the Australian dollar weakens against the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar price of the ordinary shares could decline, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. Our ordinary shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market as a result of our not meeting the NASDAQ continued listing requirements. Our ordinary shares are currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “MNEL.” On September 20, 2011, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we were not in compliance with the minimum Market Value of Listed Securities (“MVLS”) on the NASDAQ Global Market (as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(b)) because the market value of our listed securities was below the NASDAQ Global Market minimum requirement of US$50.0 million. The company has been provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until March 19, 2012, to regain compliance, which will be gained if at any time before March 19, 2012, our MVLS closes at US$50.0 million or more for a minimum of ten (10) consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by March 19, 2012, NASDAQ will provide written notification to us that our ordinary shares will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal NASDAQ’s delisting determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, we may consider applying for a transfer to The NASDAQ Capital Market provided that we satisfy the requirements for continued listing on that market. If we fail to meet all applicable NASDAQ Global Market requirements in the future and NASDAQ determines to delist our ordinary shares, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations. This delisting could also impair the value of your investment. Risks Relating to Takeovers Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. We are incorporated in Australia and are subject to the takeovers laws of Australia. Among other things, we are subject to the Australian Corporations Act 2001, or the Corporations Act. Subject to a range of exceptions, the Corporations Act prohibits the acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in our issued voting shares if the acquisition of that interest will lead to a person’s voting power in us increasing from 20% or below to more than 20%, or increasing from a starting point that is above 20% and below 90%. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. This may have the ancillary effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit our shareholders’ strategic opportunities to sell their ordinary shares and may restrict the ability of our shareholders to obtain a premium from such transactions. Our Constitution and other Australian laws and regulations applicable to us may adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. As an Australian company we are subject to different corporate requirements than a corporation organized under the laws of the United States. Our Constitution, as well as the Corporations Act, set forth various rights and obligations that are unique to us as an Australian company. These requirements operate differently than from many U.S. companies and may limit or otherwise adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. For more information, you should carefully review the summary of these matters set forth under the section entitled, “Item 10.B — Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association” as well as our Constitution. 19 