ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risk Associated With Our Business Loss or reductions of governmental requirements for the use of biofuels could have a material adverse affect on our revenues and operating margins. The biodiesel industry relies substantially on federal requirements and state policies for use of biofuels. Since biodiesel has been more expensive to produce than petroleum-based diesel fuel over the past few years, the biodiesel industry depends on governmental programs that support a market for biodiesel that might not otherwise exist. 12 Table of Contents The most important of these government programs in the United States is RFS2, which requires that a certain volume of biomass-based diesel fuel, which includes biodiesel, be consumed. RFS2 became effective on July 1, 2010 and applies through 2022. We believe that the increase in demand for our biodiesel in 2011 and 2012 is directly attributable to the implementation of RFS2. In addition, we believe that biodiesel prices in 2011 and 2012 benefited significantly from RFS2. There can be no assurance that Congress will not repeal, curtail or otherwise change, or that the EPA will not curtail or otherwise change the RFS2 program in a manner adverse to us. The petroleum industry is generally opposed to RFS2 and can be expected to continue to press for changes that eliminate or reduce its impact. Any repeal or reduction in the RFS2 requirements or reinterpretation of RFS2 resulting in our biodiesel failing to qualify as a required fuel would materially decrease the demand for and price of our biodiesel, which would materially and adversely harm our revenues and cash flows. If Congress decides to repeal or curtail RFS2, or if the EPA is not able or willing to enforce RFS2 requirements, the demand for our biodiesel based on this program and any increases in demand that we expect due to RFS2 would be significantly reduced or eliminated and our revenues and operating margins would be materially harmed. In addition, although we believe that state requirements for the use of biofuels increase demand for our biodiesel within such states, they generally may not increase overall demand in excess of RFS2 requirements. Rather, existing demand for our biofuel from petroleum refiners and petroleum fuel importers in the 48 contiguous states or Hawaii, which are defined as “Obligated Parties” in the RFS2 regulations, in connection with federal requirements, may shift to states that have use requirements or tax incentive programs. The EPA is required to determine the volume of biomass-based diesel that will be required each year beginning in 2013 based on the EPA’s consideration of a variety of factors, including biomass-based diesel production, consumption, and infrastructure issues, the likely impact of biomass-based diesel production and use in a variety of areas, including climate change, energy security, the agricultural sector, air quality, transportation fuel costs, job creation, and water quality, and other factors. RFS2 requires that the biomass-based diesel annual volume requirement be at least 1 billion gallons in each of those years. The biomass-based diesel volume requirement for 2013 is 1.28 billion gallons. As of the filing of this report, EPA has not proposed the 2014 requirement for biomass-based diesel. Once proposed by EPA, the Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, has to approve EPA’s proposal, based on the same factors outlined above. Extended delay in the proposal and/or final determination or a determination that the biomass-based diesel requirement would be equal to or less than the 1.28 billion gallons required for 2013 may reduce the demand for and price of our biodiesel, which would adversely harm our revenues and cash flows. Our gross margins are dependent on the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock costs. Our gross margins depend on the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock costs. Historically, the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock costs has varied significantly. Although actual yields vary depending on the feedstock quality, the average monthly spread between the price per gallon of 100% pure biodiesel, or B100, as reported by The Jacobsen Publishing Company, or The Jacobsen, and the price per gallon for the amount of choice white grease, a common inedible animal fat used by us to make biodiesel, was $1.83 in 2008, $1.25 in 2009, $1.06 in 2010, $1.32 in 2011 and $1.26 in 2012 assuming 8.0 pounds of choice white grease yields one gallon of biodiesel. The average monthly spread for the amount of crude soybean oil required to produce one gallon of biodiesel, based on the nearby futures contract as reported on the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT, was $0.61 per gallon in 2008, $0.39 in 2009, $0.25 per gallon in 2010, $0.89 in 2011 and $0.65 in 2012 assuming 7.5 pounds of soybean oil yields one gallon of biodiesel. For 2011 and 2012, approximately 83% and 84%, respectively, of our total feedstock usage was inedible animal fat, used cooking oil or inedible corn oil and 17% and 16%, respectively, was soybean oil, compared to approximately 91% for inedible animal fat, used cooking or inedible corn oil and 9% for soybean oil in 2010. We expect to see lower feedstock availability in 2013 as a result of recent drought conditions in the Midwest, which is expected to put upward pricing pressure on feedstock prices in the period described. 13 Table of Contents Biodiesel has traditionally been marketed primarily as an additive or alternative to petroleum-based diesel fuel and as a result biodiesel prices have been influenced by the price of petroleum-based diesel fuel, adjusted for government incentives supporting renewable fuels, rather than biodiesel production costs. A lack of close correlation between production costs and biodiesel prices means that we may be unable to pass increased production costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices. Any decrease in the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock costs, whether as a result of an increase in feedstock prices or a reduction in biodiesel prices, including, but not limited to, a reduction in the value of RINs, such as the decrease that occurred in the last few months of 2012, would adversely affect our gross margins, cash flow and results of operations. For a detailed description of RINs, see “Business—Government Programs Favoring Biodiesel Production and Use—Renewable Identification Numbers.” The costs of raw materials that we use as feedstocks are volatile and our results of operations could fluctuate substantially as a result. The cost of feedstocks is a significant uncertainty for our business. The success of our operations is dependent on the price of feedstocks and certain other raw materials that we use to produce biodiesel. A decrease in the availability or an increase in the price of feedstocks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. At elevated price levels, these feedstocks may be uneconomical to use, as we may be unable to pass feedstock cost increases on to our customers. The price and availability of feedstocks and other raw materials may be influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, farming decisions, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global supply and demand. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of feedstocks is difficult to predict, especially without knowing what types of feedstock materials will be optimal for use in the future, particularly at new facilities that we may construct or acquire. Since 2009, we have principally used inedible animal fats, used cooking oil and inedible corn oil as our feedstocks for the production of biodiesel. Our decision to shift to these feedstocks resulted from the reduction in profit caused by a significant increase in soybean oil prices, which rose from $0.1435 per pound in February 2001 to $0.7040 per pound in March 2008, and soybean oil having generally remained at high levels since that time. While prices for these alternative feedstocks can experience price volatility similar to soybean oil, their prices can also vary significantly from soybean oil based on market conditions. Since January 1, 2008, the cost per pound of choice white grease, an inedible animal fat commonly used by us in the production of biodiesel, has traded in a range of $0.0950 to $0.5250 based on the closing nearby futures prices on the CBOT. The recent drought conditions experienced in the Midwest are expected to increase the cost of corn and other feedstocks, including animal fat. Historically, the price of animal fat has been affected by the amount of rendering volumes in the United States, as well as demand from other markets. As the cost of animal feed rises as a result of the drought in the Midwest, the price of animal products may also rise, thereby reducing demand and rendering volumes. If biodiesel production continues to increase in response to RFS2, we expect that more biodiesel producers will seek to use lower cost feedstocks, potentially increasing our costs of production. In addition, because the market for animal fat is less developed than markets for vegetable oils such as soybean oil, we generally are unable to enter into forward contracts at fixed prices. Further, the markets for used cooking oil and inedible corn oil are in their nascent stages. The market and supply for used cooking oil as a feedstock for biodiesel is growing. The commercial supply of inedible corn oil is growing as more ethanol producers are installing corn oil extraction technology in their ethanol plants. It is not generally available in quantities sufficient to cover all of our operations. Approximately half of U.S. ethanol plants have the equipment necessary to extract inedible corn oil that can be used in biodiesel production. There are a number of additional ethanol producers who have announced plans to install corn oil extraction equipment in their ethanol plants. If more ethanol plants do not acquire and utilize corn oil extraction equipment or if ethanol plants are idled, we may not be able to obtain additional amounts of inedible corn oil for use in our production of biodiesel and may be forced to utilize higher cost feedstocks to meet increased demand, which may not be economical. 14 Table of Contents Loss of or reductions in tax incentives for biodiesel production or consumption would have a material adverse affect on our revenues and operating margins. The biodiesel industry is also substantially aided by federal and state tax incentives. Prior to RFS2, the biodiesel industry relied principally on these tax incentives to bring the price of biodiesel more in line with the price of petroleum-based diesel fuel to the end user. The most significant tax incentive program was the federal blenders tax credit. The blenders tax credit provided a $1.00 refundable tax credit per gallon of pure biodiesel, or B100, to the first blender of biodiesel with petroleum-based diesel fuel. The blenders tax credit expired on December 31, 2009 and was re-enacted in December 2010, retroactively for all of 2010 and prospectively for 2011. The blenders tax credit expired again on December 31, 2011 and was again re-enacted on January 2, 2013, retroactively for all of 2012 and prospectively for 2013. There is no assurance that it will be reinstated when it expires at the end of 2013. Unlike RFS2, the blenders tax credit has a direct effect on federal government spending and could be changed or eliminated as a result of changes in the federal budget policy. The absence of and uncertainty around the blenders tax credit during 2012 materially curtailed demand for biodiesel and reduced margins. Although the blenders tax credit was reinstated for all of 2012, it was restated in January of 2013 and thus will be reflected in our 2013 earnings. It is uncertain what action, if any, Congress may take with respect to extending the blenders tax credit beyond 2013 or when such action might be effective. If Congress does not reinstate the credit, demand for our biodiesel and the price we are able to charge for our product may be significantly reduced, harming revenues and profitability. With the blenders tax credit expiring on December 31, 2011, we believe that we experienced an industry-wide acceleration of gallons sold in the fourth quarter of 2011, which was further influenced by the ability of Obligated Parties to satisfy up to 20% of their renewable volume obligation, or RVO, for 2012 through RINs obtained in 2011. We believe the resulting buildup of biodiesel inventories reduced gallons sold in the first quarter of 2012. We may experience something similar with the blenders tax credit scheduled to expire again on December 31, 2013. In addition, several states have enacted tax incentives for the use of biodiesel. For example, Illinois offers an exemption from the generally applicable 6.25% sales tax for biodiesel blends that incentivizes blending at 11% biodiesel, or B11. Like the federal blenders tax credit, the Illinois tax incentive program and the tax incentive programs of other state could be changed as a result of state budget considerations or otherwise. Reduction or elimination of such incentives could materially and adversely harm our revenues and profitability. Risk management transactions could significantly increase our operating costs and working capital requirements and may not be effective. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of volatile feedstock costs and biodiesel fuel prices, we may enter into contracts that establish market positions in feedstocks, such as inedible corn oil, used cooking oil, inedible animal fats and soybean oil, and related commodities, such as heating oil and ultra-low sulfur diesel, or ULSD. The financial impact of such market positions will depend on commodity prices at the time that we are required to perform our obligations under these contracts. Risk management arrangements will also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the counterparty defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded or over-the-counter futures or options contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the contract and the actual prices paid or received by us. Risk management activities can themselves result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. Changes in the value of these futures instruments are recognized in current income and may result in margin calls. We may also vary the amount of risk management strategies we undertake, or we may choose not to engage in risk management transactions at all. Further, our ability to reduce the risk of falling biodiesel prices and rising feedstock costs will be limited as currently there is no established futures market for biodiesel or the vast majority of our feedstocks, nor are fixed-price long-term contracts generally available. As a result, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by increases in the price of feedstocks or decreases in the price of biodiesel that are not managed effectively. For example, we had losses of $4.6 million from risk management trading activity for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to gains of $3.0 million from risk management trading for the year ended December 31, 2011, respectively. Our increased losses were 15 Table of Contents largely due to a decrease in soybean oil prices in September 2012 and an increase in heating oil prices during the third quarter of 2012 which resulted in reduced market value of our derivative financial instruments related to fourth quarter biodiesel sales. Our success depends on our ability to manage our growing and changing operations. Since our formation, our business has grown significantly in size and complexity. This growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. In addition, we expect that we will need to further develop our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This will require us to incur expenses related to hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. One customer accounted for a meaningful percentage of revenues and a loss of this customer could have an adverse impact on our total revenues. One customer, Pilot Travel Centers LLC, or Pilot, accounted for 36% and 23% of our total revenues in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our agreements with Pilot have typically had a one-year term and our current agreement with Pilot expires December 31, 2013. In the event we lose Pilot as a customer or Pilot significantly reduces the volume of biodiesel it buys from us, it could be difficult to replace the lost revenues in the short term and potentially over an extended period, and our profitability and cash flow could be materially harmed. Our business is primarily dependent upon one product. As a consequence, we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or endure any decline in the biodiesel industry. Our business is currently focused almost entirely on the production and sale of biodiesel, with glycerin and fatty acid sales and the operations of our Services segment representing only a small portion of revenues. Our reliance on biodiesel means that we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or to withstand any significant decline in the size or profitability of the biodiesel industry. For example, in 2009, the beginning of 2010, we were required to periodically idle our plants due to insufficient demand at profitable price points which materially affected our revenues. If we are required to idle our plants in the future or are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, our revenues and results of operations may be materially harmed. Technological advances and changes in production methods in the biodiesel industry could render our plants obsolete and adversely affect our ability to compete. It is expected that technological advances in biodiesel production methods will continue to occur and new technologies for biodiesel production may develop. Advances in the process of converting oils and fats into biodiesel could allow our competitors to produce biodiesel faster and more efficiently and at a substantially lower cost. If we are unable to adapt or incorporate technological advances into our operations, our production facilities could become less competitive or obsolete. Further, it may be necessary for us to make significant expenditures to acquire any new technology and retrofit our plants in order to incorporate new technologies and remain competitive. There is no assurance that third-party licenses for any proprietary technologies that we would need access to in order to remain competitive for either existing processes or new technology will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or that any new technologies could be incorporated into our plants. In order to execute our strategy to expand into the production of renewable chemicals, additional advanced biofuels, next generation feedstocks and related renewable products, we may need to acquire licenses or other rights to technology from third parties. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain, implement or finance new technologies, our production facilities could be less efficient than our competitors, we may not be able to successfully execute our strategy and our results of operations could be substantially harmed. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to respond to changes in ASTM or customer standards, our ability to sell biodiesel may be harmed. We currently produce biodiesel to conform to or exceed standards established by ASTM. ASTM standards for biodiesel and biodiesel blends may be modified in response to new observations from the industries involved with diesel fuel. New tests or more stringent standards may require us to make additional capital investments in, or modify, plant operations to meet these standards. In addition, some biodiesel customers have developed their own biodiesel standards which are stricter than the ASTM standards. If we are unable to meet new ASTM standards or our biodiesel customers’ standards cost effectively or at all, our production technology may become obsolete, and our ability to sell biodiesel may be harmed, negatively impacting our revenues and profitability. Increases in our transportation costs or disruptions in our transportation services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business depends on transportation services to deliver our products to our customers and to deliver raw materials to us. The costs of these transportation services are affected by the volatility in fuel prices, such as those caused by recent geopolitical and economic events. For example, in 2012, the market rates of leasing new rail cars nearly doubled as a result of increased demand to move domestically drilled crude oil from new supply fields in the upper Midwest to various refineries. We have not been able in the past, and may not be able in the future, to pass along part or all of any of these increases to customers. If we continue to be unable to increase our prices as a result of increased fuel costs charged to us by transportation providers, our gross margins may be materially adversely affected. If any transportation providers fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our results of operations. We are highly dependent upon key members of our management team for the execution of our business plan. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of these key employees. There can be no assurance that any individual will continue in his or her capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of any of these key employees could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial position. We and certain subsidiaries have indebtedness, which subjects us to potential defaults, could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limits our ability to react to changes in the economy or the biodiesel industry. At December 31, 2012, our total long-term debt was $31.8 million. This includes consolidated long-term debt owed by our Variable Interest Entities, or VIEs, including 416 South Bell, LLC, or Bell, LLC. In December 2011, certain of our subsidiaries entered into a new revolving credit agreement with a bank group and Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC, which we refer to as the Wells Fargo Revolver. At December 31, 2012, there was no balance outstanding under our lines of credit, all of which we guarantee. All of the agreements for our indebtedness contain financial covenants the breach of which would result in an event of default by us or our subsidiary obligor. For a discussion of the financial covenants related to our debt agreements, see “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity.” 17 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries are required annually to pay a certain portion of our excess cash flow at our Danville and Newton facilities to their respective lenders, which reduces the cash flow that we receive from these facilities. Our indebtedness could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal, interest on, and other fees related to such indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and biodiesel industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the biodiesel industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Despite our current debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. This could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt in the future, including secured debt. We and certain of our subsidiaries are not currently prohibited under the terms of our debt from incurring additional debt, pledging assets, refinancing our debt or taking a number of other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments thereunder. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. We have partially constructed or non-operational plants and planned plant upgrades that require capital that we may not be able to raise and an impairment could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and future cash flows. We have three partially constructed plants, one near New Orleans, Louisiana, one in Emporia, Kansas and one in Clovis, New Mexico. We expect it will require additional investments of approximately $130 to $140 million in the aggregate, excluding working capital requirements, before these plants would be able to commence production. Our Clovis plant is currently being operated as a terminal facility to fulfill biodiesel contracts for customers in the Southwest. In order to complete construction or upgrade these facilities as planned, we will require additional capital. In November 2012, we acquired a biodiesel facility near Atlanta, Georgia that had been idled prior to our acquisition and will remain so until certain repairs or upgrades are made. We also have various upgrades planned for our operating facilities, including the upgrades we are currently completing at our Albert Lea, Minnesota and New Boston, Texas facility. While we intend to finance certain upgrades to our existing facilities from our cash flow from operations, we will need to raise significant capital to complete construction of the three partially constructed facilities and to fund related working capital requirements. It is uncertain when or if financing will be available. It is also likely that the terms of any project financing would include customary financial and other covenants restricting our project subsidiaries, including restrictions on the ability to make distributions, to guarantee indebtedness and to incur liens on the plants of such subsidiaries. We also may engage in acquisitions of assets or facilities in the future that require significant investment to complete or operate. If we are unable to obtain such capital on satisfactory terms, or if such capital is otherwise unavailable, or if we encounter cost overruns on these projects such that we have insufficient capital, we may have to postpone completion of these projects indefinitely, which may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy and our future revenues and future cash flows. We may not successfully identify and complete acquisitions and other strategic relationships on favorable terms or achieve anticipated synergies relating to any such transactions, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We regularly review domestic and international acquisitions of biodiesel production facilities and have acquired most of our facilities from third parties. However, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates in 18 Table of Contents the future. Even if we identify appropriate acquisition candidates, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all of our past or future transactions and each transaction has numerous risks. These risks include: • difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulty in effectively integrating the acquired technologies, products or services with our current technologies, products or services; • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; • the need to fund significant working capital requirements of any acquired production facilities; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or technology, including but not limited to, issues with the acquired company’s intellectual property, product quality, environmental liabilities, data back-up and security, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, employee, customer or partner issues or legal and financial contingencies; • exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; and • incurring significant exit charges if products or services acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful. In addition, one of our strategic goals is to expand our biodiesel production capabilities into international markets. In the event we expand our operations into international markets through acquisitions or otherwise, we may be exposed to additional risks, including unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations, political and economic instability, challenges in managing foreign operations, increased costs to adapt our systems and practices to those used in foreign countries, export duties, currency fluctuations and restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers, and the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We intend to pursue strategic initiatives to diversify our business that will require significant funding and management attention and these initiatives may not be successful. We are seeking opportunities to diversify our product lines, as a commercialization partner for companies engaged in the development of new advanced biofuels, by using our biorefinery platform to produce renewable chemicals from bio-mass feedstocks and by entering entirely new industries through acquisitions or otherwise. There is no assurance that new technologies capable of economically producing advanced biofuels will be developed, that the developers of these technologies will select us as their commercialization partner or that the terms of any such collaborative arrangement will be favorable to us. Further, the renewable chemicals market is underdeveloped. Any chemicals that we produce from renewable sources may not prove to be as effective as chemicals produced from petroleum or other sources and, regardless of their effectiveness, renewable chemicals may not be accepted in the chemical marketplace. Furthermore, we may not be able to acquire companies in different industries at attractive valuations or at all. These strategic initiatives will require significant funding and management attention, and if we are not successful in implementing them, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We may be obligated to redeem our Series B preferred stock beginning in 2015. On June 30, 2015, each holder of the then-outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock may require that up to all of such holder’s shares of Series B preferred stock be redeemed by us out of funds lawfully available at a 19 Table of Contents price per share equal to $25 per share plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends. As of the date of this filing, the amount of this potential obligation would be approximately $74.9 million. In order to satisfy any redemption request, we may need to use limited cash resources on hand, be required to borrow money, issue equity securities or sell assets to meet this obligation, which could impair our working capital, reduce the funds necessary to operate and grow our business, involve significant dilution to holders of our Common Stock or require the disposition of our key assets. If we are subject to a redemption request, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and cause the price of our Common Stock to decline. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which are likely to cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate. Our operating results are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of and demand for biodiesel. Our sales tend to decrease during the winter season due to perceptions that biodiesel will not perform adequately in colder weather. Colder seasonal temperatures can cause the higher cloud point biodiesel we make from inedible animal fats to become cloudy and eventually gel at a higher temperature than petroleum-based diesel or lower cloud point biodiesel made from soybean, canola, used cooking oil or inedible corn oil. Such gelling can lead to plugged fuel filters and other fuel handling and performance problems for customers and suppliers. Reduced demand in the winter for our higher cloud point biodiesel may result in excess supply of such higher cloud point biodiesel and lower prices for such higher cloud point biodiesel. In addition, most of our production facilities are located in colder Midwestern states and our costs of shipping biodiesel to warmer climates generally increase in cold weather months. As a result of these seasonal fluctuations, comparisons of operating measures between consecutive quarters may not be as meaningful as comparisons between longer reporting periods. Failure to comply with governmental regulations, including EPA requirements relating to RFS2, could result in the imposition of penalties, fines, or restrictions on our operations and remedial liabilities. The biodiesel industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations related to the general population’s health and safety and compliance and permitting obligations, including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge, emission and disposal of municipal solid waste and other waste, pollutants or hazardous substances, discharges, air and other emissions, as well as land use and development. Existing laws also impose obligations to clean up contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Compliance with these laws, regulations and obligations could require substantial capital expenditures. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of penalties, fines or restrictions on operations and remedial liabilities. These costs and liabilities could adversely affect our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business in general and on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would significantly increase our cost of doing business or affect our operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant and, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the regulations mentioned above, we are subject to various laws and regulations related to RFS2, most significantly regulations related to the generation and dissemination of RINs. These regulations are highly 20 Table of Contents complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. For example, in 2008, we unintentionally generated duplicate RINs as a result of a change to the software we use to manage RIN generation. We voluntarily reported this violation to the EPA and followed EPA guidance in correcting the issue promptly. In 2011, we entered into an administrative settlement agreement with the EPA regarding this violation and paid a fine for this inadvertent violation. Any violation of these regulations by us, inadvertently or otherwise, could result in significant fines and harm our customers’ confidence in the RINs we issue, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For a detailed description of RINs, see “Business—Government Programs Favoring Biodiesel Production and Use—Renewable Identification Numbers.” In response to certain cases of RIN fraud whereby biodiesel producers were selling biomass-based diesel RINs without having produced the required renewable fuel, the EPA has recently instituted a quality assurance program for RIN compliance. Compliance with these or any new regulations or Obligated Party verification procedures could require significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of penalties, fines, restrictions on operations, loss of customers and remedial liabilities. These costs and liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our business in general and on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to predict the effect of any additional regulatory or customer requirements which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such regulations or verification procedures would significantly increase our cost of doing business or affect our operations in any area. We are a holding company and there are limitations on our ability to receive dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries. All of our principal assets, including our biodiesel production facilities, are owned by subsidiaries and some of these subsidiaries are subject to loan covenants that generally restrict them from paying dividends, making distributions or making loans to us or to any other subsidiary. These limitations will restrict our ability to repay indebtedness, finance capital projects or pay dividends to stockholders from our subsidiaries’ cash flows from operations. Our business may suffer if we are unable to attract or retain talented personnel. Our success depends on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity, and good faith of our management and employees to manage the business and respond to economic, market and other conditions. We have a relatively small management team and employee base, and the inability to attract suitably qualified replacements or additional staff could adversely affect our business. No assurance can be given that our management team or employee base will continue their employment, or that replacement personnel with comparable skills could be found. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and additional employees, our business may be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the value of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. The process of maintaining our internal controls may be expensive and time consuming and may require significant attention from management. Although we have concluded as of December 31, 2012 that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact could harm the value of our stock and our business. 21 Table of Contents A natural disaster, leak, fire or explosion at any of our production plants or customer’s facilities could increase our costs and liabilities. Because biodiesel and some of its inputs and outputs are combustible and flammable, a leak, fire or explosion may occur at a plant or customer’s facility which could result in damage to the plant and nearby properties, injury to employees and others, and interruption of operations. In addition, our Houston facility, due to its coastal location, is vulnerable to hurricanes, which may cause plant damage, injury to employees and others and interruption of operations and all of our plants could incur damage from other natural disasters. A majority of our facilities are also located in the Midwest, which is subject to tornado activity. If any of the foregoing events occur, we may incur significant additional costs including, among other things, loss of profits due to unplanned temporary or permanent shutdowns of our facilities, clean-up costs, liability for damages or injuries, legal expenses, and reconstruction expenses, which would seriously harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance may not protect us against our business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we intend to maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate for our business and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks. In addition, pollution, environmental risks and the risk of natural disasters generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of confidential information, trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. For example, we require new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that knowhow and inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us are our exclusive property. Nevertheless, these agreements may be breached, or may not be enforceable, and our proprietary information may be disclosed. Further, despite the existence of these agreements, third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to protect our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our technology does not infringe upon any valid claims of patents that other parties own. In the future, if we are found to be infringing on a patent owned by a third party, we might have to seek a license from such third party to use the patented technology. We cannot assure you that, if required, we would be able to obtain such a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If a third party brought a legal action against us or our licensors, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves, and we cannot assure you that such an action would be resolved in our favor. If such a dispute were to be resolved against us, we could be subject to significant damages. 22 Table of Contents Insiders have substantial control over us and will continue to be able to exercise influence over corporate matters. As of February 28, 2013, our five largest stockholders beneficially owned, in the aggregate, sufficient shares of our voting stock to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, two of our largest stockholders, USRG Holdco V, LLC, which together with its affiliates we refer to as USRG, and NGP Energy Technology Partners, L.P., will hold rights to each designate a member of our board of directors for the next two years. This concentration of ownership and contractual power over the appointment of directors could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. In the event we enter into new construction contracts, we may be exposed to a variety of risks that could affect our ability to realize profit. While our construction services management business has had only limited external operations over the last three years, we intend to continue to pursue opportunities to provide these services. Substantially all of our revenues from our new facility construction services business have been derived from fixed unit price contracts. Fixed unit price contracts require us to perform the contract for a fixed unit price irrespective of our actual costs. As a result, we realize a profit on these contracts only if we and our subcontractors successfully estimate our costs and then successfully control actual costs and avoid cost overruns. Further, we have historically subcontracted substantially all of our construction work to Todd & Sargent, Inc. and TSW, LLC on a time and materials, rather than fixed, basis. As a result, we have less control over the largest component of our plant construction costs and the risk of cost overruns generally falls on us rather than our subcontractors. If we or our subcontractors do not perform a contract within cost estimates, then cost overruns may cause us to incur losses or cause the contract not to be as profitable as we initially expected. This, in turn, could negatively affect our cash flow, earnings and financial position. As we have acquired assets and begun consolidating the industry, our construction services management business has almost exclusively been focused on internal intercompany projects. If we or our subcontractors perform extra or change order work that is not approved by the customer in advance we may have a dispute with the customer over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original project plans and specifications or, if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the price that the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. These disputes may result in us not receiving payment for all or a significant portion of work that we or our subcontractors have performed. Even where the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of that work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved and paid by the customer. To the extent actual recoveries with respect to change orders or amounts subject to contract disputes or claims are less than the estimates used in our financial statements, the amount of any shortfall will reduce our revenues and profits, and this could have a material adverse effect on our working capital and results of operations. Risks Related to the Biodiesel Industry The market price of biodiesel is influenced by the price of petroleum-based distillate fuels, such as ultra-low sulfur diesel, and decreases in the price of petroleum-based distillate fuels or RIN values would very likely decrease the price we can charge for our biodiesel, which could harm our revenues and profitability. Historically, biodiesel prices have been strongly correlated to petroleum-based diesel prices and in particular ULSD, regardless of the cost of producing biodiesel itself. We market our biofuel as an alternative to petroleum-based fuels. Therefore, if the price of petroleum-based diesel falls, the price of biodiesel could decline, and we may be unable to produce products that are an economically viable alternative to petroleum-based fuels. Petroleum prices are volatile due to global factors, such as the impact of wars, political uprisings, OPEC production quotas, worldwide economic conditions, changes in refining capacity and natural disasters. Additionally, demand for liquid transportation fuels, including biodiesel, is impacted by economic conditions. 23 Table of Contents Just as a small reduction in the real or anticipated supply of crude oil can have a significant upward impact on the price of petroleum-based fuels, a perceived reduction of such threats can result in a significant reduction in petroleum-based fuel prices. A reduction in petroleum-based fuel prices may have a material adverse affect on our revenues and profits if such price decrease reduces the price we are able to charge for our biodiesel. There was a sharp decline in RIN prices during third quarter 2012 that carried through the end of the year. During this period, RIN pricing declined from $1.17 per RIN at June 30, 2012 to $0.64 per RIN at December 31, 2012, as reported by OPIS, which contributed to the decline in price of biodiesel. A reduction in RIN values, such as those experienced in the second half of 2012, may have a material adverse affect on our revenues and profits as such price decrease reduce the price we are able to charge for our biodiesel. We operate in a highly competitive industry and competition in our industry would increase if new participants enter the biodiesel business. We operate in a very competitive environment. The biodiesel industry is primarily comprised of smaller entities that engage exclusively in biodiesel production, large integrated agribusiness companies that produce biodiesel along with their soybean crush businesses and increasingly, integrated petroleum companies. We face competition for capital, labor, feedstocks and other resources from these companies. In the United States, we compete with soybean processors and refiners, including Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, LLC, Cargill, Inc. and Louis Dreyfus Commodities. In addition, petroleum refiners are increasingly entering into biodiesel and renewable diesel production. These and other competitors that are divisions of larger enterprises may have greater financial resources than we do. We also have many smaller competitors. If our competitors consolidate or otherwise grow and we are unable to similarly increase our scale, our business and prospects may be significantly and adversely affected. In addition, petroleum companies and diesel retailers form the primary distribution networks for marketing biodiesel through blended petroleum-based diesel. If these companies increase their direct or indirect biodiesel and renewable diesel production, there will be less of a need to purchase biodiesel from independent biodiesel producers like us. Such a shift in the market would materially harm our operations, cash flows and financial position. The development of alternative fuels and energy sources may reduce the demand for biodiesel, resulting in a reduction in our revenues and profitability. The development of alternative fuels, including a variety of energy alternatives to biodiesel has attracted significant attention and investment. Neste Oil operates four renewable diesel plants: a 240 million gallon per year plant in Singapore, a 240 million gallon per year plant in Rotterdam, Netherlands, and two 60 million gallon per year plants in Porvoo, Finland. Dynamic Fuels, LLC, has recently announced that their 75 million gallon per year renewable diesel plant in Geismar, Louisiana was producing near its reported capacity. Diamond Green Diesel, LLC has announced that it expects to complete construction of its 137 million gallon per year renewable diesel plant in Norco, Louisiana in 2013. Under RFS2, renewable diesel made from biomass meets the definition of biomass-based diesel and thus is eligible, along with biodiesel, to satisfy the RFS2 biomass-based diesel requirement described in “Business—Government Programs Favoring Biodiesel Production and Use.” Furthermore, under RFS2, renewable diesel may receive up to 1.7 RINs per gallon, whereas biodiesel currently receives 1.5 RINs per gallon. For a detailed description of RINs and RIN values, see “Business—Government Programs Favoring Biodiesel Production and Use—Renewable Identification Numbers.” As the value of RINs increases, this 0.2 RIN advantage may make renewable diesel more cost-effective, both as a petroleum-based diesel substitute and for meeting RFS2 requirements. If renewable diesel proves to be more cost-effective than biodiesel, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely impacted. In addition, the EPA may allow other fuels to satisfy the RFS2 requirements and allow RINs to be attached to these fuels. The EPA recently proposed regulations to amend the definition of “Home Heating Oil” under RFS2, 24 Table of Contents which may expand the scope of fuels eligible to generate RINs. If the proposed rule is finalized, this could increase competition within heating oil markets by introducing fuels that could generate more RINs (i.e., cellulosic diesel) and or be more cost competitive than biodiesel utilized as heating oil. The biodiesel industry will also face increased competition resulting from the advancement of technology by automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers which are developing more efficient engines, hybrid engines and alternative clean power systems. Improved engines and alternative clean power systems offer a technological solution to address increasing worldwide energy costs, the long-term availability of petroleum reserves and environmental concerns. If and when these clean power systems are able to offer significant efficiency and environmental benefits and become widely available, the biodiesel industry may not be able to compete effectively with these technologies and government requirements for the use of biodiesel may not continue. The development of alternative fuels and renewable chemicals also puts pressure on feedstock supply and availability to the biodiesel industry. If these emerging technologies compete with biodiesel for feedstocks, are more profitable or have greater governmental support than biodiesel does, then the biodiesel industry may have difficulty in procuring the feedstocks necessary to be successful. Increased industry-wide production of biodiesel could have a negative effect on our margins and there remains excess production capacity in the biodiesel industry. According to EPA EMTS data, approximately 1.1 billion gallons of biomass-based diesel was produced in the United States in 2011, and 1.14 billion was produced in 2012, primarily reflecting the recommencement of, or increase in, operations at underutilized facilities in response to RFS2 requirements. Such production was in excess of the 800 million gallon RFS2 requirement for 2011 and one billion gallon requirement for 2012. Should biodiesel production continue to remain above RFS2 required volumes, which is 1.28 billion for 2013, the resulting supply could put downward pressure on our margins for biodiesel, negatively affecting our profitability. In addition, because the level of production in 2011 and 2012 exceeded the 2011 and 2012 RFS2 requirements, respectively, the demand for biodiesel in 2013 could be less than 2013 RFS2 required volumes. Under RFS2, Obligated Parties are entitled to satisfy up to 20% of their annual volume requirement for any given year with gallons used in the previous year so long as they are in compliance with the RFS2. The carry-over of gallons from 2012 may have some adverse effect on biodiesel demand in 2013. Many biodiesel plants in the United States do not currently operate, and of those that do, many do not operate at full capacity. According to the NBB, as of September 12, 2012, 2.7 billion gallons per year of biodiesel production capacity in the United States were registered under the RFS2 program by NBB members. In addition to this amount, several hundred more gallons of U.S. based biomass-based diesel production capacity was registered by non-NBB members and another 1.2 billion gallons of biomass-based diesel production was registered by foreign producers. Furthermore, plants under construction and expansion in the United States as of December 31 2011, if completed, could add an additional several hundred million gallons of annual biodiesel production capacity. The annual production capacity of existing plants and plants under construction far exceeds both historic consumption of biodiesel in the United States and required consumption under RFS2. If this excess production capacity was fully utilized for the U.S. market, it would increase competition for our feedstocks, increase the volume of biomass-based diesel on the market and may reduce biodiesel gross margins, harming our revenues and profitability. The European Commission has imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on biodiesel blends imported into Europe, which have effectively eliminated our ability to sell those biodiesel blends in Europe. In March 2009, as a response to the federal blenders tax credit, the European Commission imposed anti-dumping and anti-subsidy tariffs on biodiesel produced in the United States. These tariffs have effectively eliminated 25 Table of Contents European demand for 20% biodiesel blends, or B20, or higher imported from the United States. The European Commission has extended these tariffs through 2014. In May 2011, the European Commission imposed similar anti-dumping and countervailing duties on biodiesel blends below B20. These duties significantly increase the price at which we and other United States biodiesel producers will be able to sell such biodiesel blends in European markets, making it difficult or impossible to compete in the European biodiesel market. These anti-dumping and countervailing duties therefore decrease the demand for biodiesel produced in the United States and increase the supply of biodiesel available in the United States market. Such market dynamics may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. If automobile manufacturers and other industry groups express reservations regarding the use of biodiesel, our ability to sell biodiesel will be negatively impacted. Because it is a relatively new product, research on biodiesel use in automobiles is ongoing. Some industry groups have recommended that blends of no more than 5% biodiesel be used for automobile fuel due to concerns about fuel quality, engine performance problems and possible detrimental effects of biodiesel on rubber components and other engine parts. Although some manufacturers have encouraged use of biodiesel fuel in their vehicles, cautionary pronouncements by other manufacturers or industry groups may impact our ability to market our biodiesel. Perception about “food vs. fuel” could impact public policy which could impair our ability to operate at a profit and substantially harm our revenues and operating margins. Some people believe that biodiesel may increase the cost of food, as some feedstocks such as soybean oil used to make biodiesel can also be used for food products. This debate is often referred to as “food vs. fuel.” This is a concern to the biodiesel industry because biodiesel demand is heavily influenced by government policy and if public opinion were to erode, it is possible that these policies would lose political support. These views could also negatively impact public perception of biodiesel. Such claims have led some, including members of Congress, to urge the modification of current government policies which affect the production and sale of biofuels in the United States. Concerns regarding the environmental impact of biodiesel production could affect public policy which could impair our ability to operate at a profit and substantially harm our revenues and operating margins. Because biodiesel is a relatively new product, the environmental impacts associated with biodiesel production and uses have not yet been fully analyzed. Under the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act, the EPA is required to produce a study every three years of the environmental impacts associated with current and future biofuel production and use, including effects on air and water quality, soil quality and conservation, water availability, energy recovery from secondary materials, ecosystem health and biodiversity, invasive species and international impacts. The first such triennial report was released in February 2012. The 2012 report concludes that (1) the extent of negative impacts to date are limited in magnitude and are primarily associated with the intensification of corn production; (2) whether future impacts are positive or negative will be determined by the choice of feedstock, land use change, cultivation and conservation practices; and (3) realizing potential benefits will require implementation and monitoring of conservation and best management practices, improvements in production efficiency, and implementation of innovative technologies at commercial scales. Should future EPA triennial studies, or other analyses find that biodiesel production and use has resulted in, or could in the future result in, adverse environmental impacts, such findings could also negatively impact public perception of biodiesel and acceptance of biodiesel as an alternative fuel, which also could result in the loss of political support. To the extent that state or federal laws are modified or public perception turns against biodiesel, use requirements such as RFS2 and state tax incentives may not continue, which could materially harm our ability to operate profitably. 26 Table of Contents Problems with product performance, in cold weather or otherwise, could cause consumers to lose confidence in the reliability of biodiesel which, in turn, would have an adverse impact on our ability to successfully market and sell biodiesel. Concerns about the performance of biodiesel could result in a decrease in customers and revenues and an unexpected increase in expenses. Biodiesel typically has a higher cloud point than petroleum-based diesel. The cloud point is the temperature below which a fuel exhibits a noticeable cloudiness and is the conventional indicator of a fuel’s potential for cold weather problems. The lower the cloud point, the better the fuel should perform in cold weather. According to an article published by Iowa State University Extension, the cloud point of biodiesel is typically between 30 °F and 60 °F, while the cloud point of the most common form of pure petroleum-based diesel fuel is typically less than 20 °F. It is our experience that when biodiesel is mixed with pure petroleum-based diesel to make a two percent biodiesel blend, the cloud point of the blended fuel can be 2 °F to 6 °F higher than petroleum-based diesel and the cloud point of a twenty percent biodiesel blend can be 15 °F to 35 °F higher than petroleum based diesel, depending on the individual cloud points of the biodiesel and petroleum-based diesel. Cold temperatures can therefore cause biodiesel blended fuel to become cloudy and eventually to gel when pure petroleum-based diesel would not, and this can lead to plugged fuel filters and other fuel handling and performance problems for customers and suppliers. The consequences of these higher cloud points may cause demand for biodiesel in northern and eastern United States markets to diminish during the colder months, which are the primary markets in which we currently operate. The tendency of biodiesel to gel in colder weather may also result in long-term storage problems. In cold climates, fuel may need to be stored in a heated building or heated storage tanks, which result in higher storage costs. This and other performance problems, including the possibility of particulate formation above the cloud point of a blend of biodiesel and petroleum-based diesel, may also result in increased expenses as we try to remedy these performance problems, including the costs of extra cold weather treatment additives. Remedying these performance problems may result in decreased yields, lower process throughput or both, as well as substantial capital costs. Any reduction in the demand for our biodiesel product, or the production capacity of our facilities will reduce our revenues and have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Growth in the sale and distribution of biodiesel is dependent on the expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure limitations or disruptions. Growth in the biodiesel industry depends on substantial development of infrastructure for the distribution of biodiesel. Substantial investment required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made on a timely basis or at all. The scope and timing of any infrastructure expansion are generally beyond our control. Also, we compete with other biofuel companies for access to some of the key infrastructure components such as pipeline and terminal capacity. As a result, increased production of biodiesel or other biofuels will increase the demand and competition for necessary infrastructure. Any delay or failure in expanding distribution infrastructure could hurt the demand for or prices of biodiesel, impede delivery of our biodiesel, and impose additional costs, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business will be dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure for the distribution of increasing volumes of biodiesel and any infrastructure disruptions could materially harm our business. We may face competition from imported biodiesel and renewable diesel, which may reduce demand for biodiesel produced by us and cause our revenues to decline. Biodiesel and renewable diesel produced in Canada, South America, Europe, Eastern Asia, the Pacific Rim, or other regions may be imported into the United States market to compete with United States produced biodiesel. These regions may benefit from production incentives or other financial incentives in their home countries that offset some of their production costs and enable them to profitably sell biodiesel or renewable diesel in the United States at lower prices than United States-based biodiesel producers. Under RFS2, imported biodiesel and 27 Table of Contents renewable diesel may be eligible and, therefore, may compete to meet the volumetric requirements for biomass-based diesel. This could make it more challenging for us to market or sell biodiesel in the United States, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Nitrogen oxide emissions from biodiesel may harm its appeal as a renewable fuel and increase costs. In some instances biodiesel may increase emissions of nitrogen oxide as compared to petroleum-based diesel fuel, which could harm air quality. Nitrogen oxide is a contributor to ozone and smog. These emissions may decrease the appeal of biodiesel to environmental groups and agencies who have been historic supporters of the biodiesel industry, potentially harming our ability to market our biodiesel. In addition, several states may act to regulate potential nitrogen oxide emissions from biodiesel. California is in the process of formulating biodiesel regulations that may also require such an additive. In states where such an additive is required to sell biodiesel, the additional cost of the additive may make biodiesel less profitable or make biodiesel less cost competitive against petroleum-based diesel or renewable diesel, which would negatively impact our ability to sell our products in such states and therefore have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Several biofuels companies throughout the United States have filed for bankruptcy over the last several years due to industry and economic conditions. Unfavorable worldwide economic conditions, lack of credit and volatile biofuel prices and feedstock costs have likely contributed to the necessity of bankruptcy filings by biofuel producers. Our business has been, and in the future may be, negatively impacted by the industry conditions that influenced the bankruptcy proceedings of other biofuel producers, or we may encounter new competition from buyers of distressed biodiesel properties who enter the industry at a lower cost than original plant investors. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our Common Stock may be volatile. The market price for our Common Stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • changes in the performance or market valuations of other companies engaged in our industry; • issuance of new or updated research reports by securities or industry analysts; • changes in financial estimates by us or of securities or industry analysts; • investors’ general perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • changes in the political climate in the industry in which we operate, existing laws, regulations and policies applicable to our business and products, including RFS2, and the continuation or adoption or failure to continue or adopt renewable energy requirements and incentives, including the blenders tax credit; • other regulatory developments in our industry affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts, including sales or expected sales of additional common stock; • additions or departures of key management or other personnel; • litigation; 28 Table of Contents • inadequate trading volume; • general market conditions in our industry; and • general economic and market conditions, including continued dislocations and downward pressure in the capital markets. In addition, stock markets generally and from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may have material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. We may issue additional Common Stock as consideration for future investments or acquisitions. We have issued in the past, and may issue in the future, our securities in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our Common Stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our Common Stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding Common Stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of common stock to date, have contractual restrictions against paying cash dividends and currently intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our Common Stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our Common Stock. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws will contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with rights set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • a classified board; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the classified board, the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL. These provisions may prohibit or restrict large stockholders, in 29 Table of Contents particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in our market price being lower than it would without these provisions. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock or do not publish research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Common Stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. It is difficult for companies such as ours to attract independent equity research analysts to cover our Common Stock. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our Common Stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our Common Stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 