Risk Factors — The joint venture company and/or our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability risks.” We have a 20% interest in the refinery and hence we may have limited control over the financial and operating policies of the joint venture company. Our limited shareholding and representation on the Board of the joint venture company may limit our ability to influence the financial and operating procedures of the company which may limit our ability to generate a positive return for the Group. If the joint venture company is unable to generate profitable sales, this will significantly reduce its ability to pay dividends, which may harm our results of operations. In 2015, our biofuel revenue was NIL due to the shut-down of the refining operations in previous financial years. In February 2015, we concluded the sale of our 250,000 tpa refinery to the joint venture company, in which we hold a 20% interest. We did not receive any dividends from our investment into the joint venture company which purchased our refinery in 2015. The historic revenue contracts have since expired, and we cannot assure you that the joint venture company will be able to source new customers and establish and maintain long-term relationships with such customers. If the joint venture company is unable to source new customers, we may not be issued any earnings dividend and our results of operations could be adversely affected. If the joint venture company cannot find suitably qualified personnel to run the refinery, they may be unable to enter into sales contracts which may result in lost revenues and incurred costs. The operation of the refinery requires suitably qualified personnel. With the current status of the refinery being retrofitted with new technology, the majority of personnel have been retrenched. The ability to restart the refinery may be affected by an inability to employ suitably trained staff by the joint venture company. If the joint venture company cannot get the refinery to run successfully after being retrofitted with new technology, they may be unable to enter into sales contracts which may result in lost revenues and incurred costs. With the refinery currently being retrofitted with new technology, such non-operation may result in significant costly technical and mechanical delays if the decision were made to restart production. 8 An increase in cost or an interruption in the supply of feedstock to the refinery may inhibit production and adversely affect our financial performance. The operation of the refinery is dependent on the ability of the joint venture company to procure substantial quantities of suitable quality feedstock. At this time, the refining operation is being retrofitted with new technology. However, should the refinery return to operations, the failure to procure a sufficient supply of raw materials satisfying quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair its ability to produce product or could increase costs. Any interruption to the supply of suitable quality feedstock may result in disruptions in production or reduced output, which may materially and adversely affect the joint venture company’s financial performance, which may be unable to issue us dividends. Additionally, the joint venture company’s financial results are substantially dependent on the prices of feedstock. A substantial increase in feedstock price relative to the value of the end saleable products would adversely affect financial performance. Although the joint venture company may attempt to offset the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into arrangements with its customers on a feedstock price plus contract basis through which a predetermined margin over the price of the feedstock is received, or by engaging in transactions that involve exchange-traded futures contracts (or other contractual arrangements securing future commodity prices), the amount and duration of these hedging and risk mitigation activities may vary substantially over time. These activities also involve substantial risks. We have experienced, and the joint venture company may in the future experience, volatile capacity utilization which may adversely affect the results of operations of the joint venture company. The joint venture company remains reliant on palm oil and associated by products as a feedstock. If the price of these products is greater than the value of biodiesel, the joint venture company may not be able to profitably sell biodiesel into the immediate cash payment and delivery market. Its ability to supply biodiesel profitably is based on having positive margins where the input costs are lower than the value of refined product. The joint venture company is unable to influence the price of input raw materials or the price of biodiesel. Resultantly, the joint venture company’s biodiesel profitability is reliant on the existence of a positive spread between these two commodities. As the joint venture company can only operate when a positive operating margin exists, it has and expects to continue to have in the future erratic capacity utilization, which may adversely affect its results of operations and its ability to distribute earnings to us. We have suffered, and the joint venture company may continue to suffer, low capacity utilization if the joint venture company is unable to secure term contracts. Given the volatility of profit margins on biodiesel production due to fluctuations in commodity pricing for palm oil and associated products and the value of the finished product, we did not historically produce biodiesel unless we had a committed contract customer willing to accept pricing based on our cost of purchasing feedstock and earning a positive margin from refining. The refinery is currently being retrofitted with new technology, and the joint venture company currently has no customers and no visibility on its ability to attract customers. We have suffered, and the joint venture company may continue to suffer, low capacity utilization if the joint venture company is unable to secure material volumes of biodiesel sales under the Malaysian Biodiesel mandate. After numerous years discussing the possible implementation of a biodiesel blending mandate in Malaysia, the Malaysian Government introduced a scheme to mandate a biodiesel blend into commercial diesel sales in some areas of Malaysia. This scheme may grow or reduce depending on Government support. In addition, the scheme was for a lower volume than previously communicated to Malaysian Biodiesel producers. Accordingly in the past we secured relatively low volumes of biodiesel sales under this scheme. Due to insufficient and unprofitable sales volumes under this mandate, we terminated the arrangements to supply biodiesel. If the scheme is not extended, or cancelled altogether, or commercially viable quantities are not secured by the joint venture company, this may adversely affect results of operations. The joint venture company currently has no biodiesel sales contracts in Malaysia and has no visibility towards further sales in Malaysia. 9 The joint venture company may be unable to perform under an offtake agreement. The joint venture company may not be able to perform under any new offtake agreements, given that its refinery is currently being retrofitted with new technology. Additionally, any changes in legislation in the local jurisdiction of the off-taker may prohibit such sales, including into the United States. The joint venture company’s inability to meet margin calls on hedged positions would adversely affect its financial condition. To maximize and protect the profitability of the offtake agreement, the joint venture company may enter into hedging positions to protect against commodity risk. Upon entering the hedging positions and the inherent volatility in the commodity markets, itwill likely be required to make margin call payments from time to time. Inability to meet such margin calls would adversely affect the financial condition and financial performance of the joint venture company. The joint venture company may suffer losses due to sales of competing products that infringe on its intellectual property. The joint venture company will rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, domain names and contractual rights to protect its intellectual property. It cannot be assured that the measures taken to protect the intellectual property rights will be sufficient to prevent any misappropriation of the intellectual property, or that competitors will not independently develop alternative technologies that are equivalent or superior to technologies based on the intellectual property. In the event that the steps taken and the protection afforded by law do not adequately safeguard the proprietary technology, the joint venture company could suffer losses due to the sales of competing products that exploit the intellectual property, and the joint venture company’s profitability would be adversely affected, which would in turn adversely affect our return on investment. If the joint venture company is subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others, the defense of these claims could drain resources and any adverse determination could adversely impact or halt biodiesel production. The retrofit and operation of the biodiesel refinery include contracts for the supply of proprietary systems, over which such suppliers have intellectual property that they have licensed to the joint venture company. This intellectual property includes the operating procedures and technical schematics of the retrofit to the biodiesel refinery, which are required to operate and maintain the plants. The unauthorized use or the infringement by the joint venture company of another person’s intellectual property right may adversely affect its financial performance and in turn our financial performance. To the best of our knowledge, the patented refining process does not infringe on any third party’s intellectual property rights. However, intellectual property rights are complex and there exists the risk that the process may infringe, or be alleged to infringe, another party’s intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of the joint venture company’s technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which the joint venture company may become a party could subject it to significant liability to third parties, require the joint venture company to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign products or manufacturing processes or subject the joint venture company to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of products or the use of technologies. Any inability to obtain and maintain all the required licenses and permits related to the joint venture company’s business and the resulting increased compliance costs may adversely affect financial performance. The joint venture company is required to hold or obtain a number of licenses and permits, including environmental and those related to materials handling, in various jurisdictions in order to implement and operate the business. We have no reason to believe that the licenses will not be renewed, although renewal is not assured. 10 The joint venture company is subject to environmental regulations, the compliance with which imposes substantial costs on the joint venture company and the violation of which could result in penalties and other liabilities. Laws dealing with protection of the environment provide for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such laws and establish, in certain circumstances, obligations to remediate facilities and locations where operations are conducted. The joint venture company will incur substantial costs in the future as part of continued efforts to comply with these environmental laws and to avoid violations of them. The joint venture company may experience a significant chemical or biodiesel spill at the refinery. If any of these events occur or if the joint venture company otherwise fails to comply with the applicable environmental or other regulations, the joint venture company could be subject to significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions of our operations, and the business reputation and profitability could be adversely affected. Any amendments to the environmental laws could impose substantial pollution control measures that could require the joint venture company to make significant expenditures to modify production process or change the design of the products to limit actual or potential impact to the environment. Moreover, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require the joint venture company to make significant additional expenditures, which may adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition. The joint venture company and/or our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability risks. The joint venture company and/or our insurance arrangements may not adequately protect against liability for all losses, including but not limited to environmental losses, property damage, public liability or losses arising from business interruption and product liability risk. Additionally, the existing insurance arrangements may have lapsed and/or be unable to be renewed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Should sufficient insurance coverage be unable to be maintained in the future or experience losses in excess of the scope of the insurance coverage, the joint venture company and/or our financial performance could be adversely affected. Changes in government policy could adversely affect the joint venture company’s business. The refinery and its feedstock are located in Malaysia, and possible biodiesel sales may be in the United States, Malaysia and Europe. In addition, the equipment for the plant is imported from, and the products are sold in various other countries. There is a risk that actions of a government in any of these countries may adversely affect the joint venture company’s ability to implement and operate its business. Government action or policy change in relation to access to lands and infrastructure, import and export regulations, environmental regulations, taxation, royalties and subsidies could adversely affect the operations and financial performance of the joint venture company. Generally, however, a policy change in any of the jurisdictions in which the joint venture company operates, or intends to operate, may inhibit its ability or the financial viability of its operations to export feedstock oil or the refined products that is marketed. This, in turn, could adversely affect operations and financial performance. The joint venture company and our financial performance may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. The joint venture company’s revenues and expenditures are potentially denominated in a number of currencies, including U.S. dollars, Euros, Australian dollars, Indonesian rupiah, and Malaysian Ringgit. In addition our future earnings, which may be in the form of dividends, are likely to be earned in Malaysian Ringgit, and we hold cash in U.S. dollars to fund operations. Historically, we have experienced losses due to un-hedged negative changes in exchange rate. Additionally, we have experienced foreign currency translation differences (which are held on our balance sheet in the foreign currency translation reserve) as a result of reporting consolidation of non-Australian subsidies. We have no foreign currency hedging arrangements in place. As a result, our financial performance may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. 11 We may be unable to recover our investment in our Malaysian biodiesel project. When we sold our refinery during this financial year, we retained a 20% shareholding in FGV Green Energy that purchased the refinery through a cash injection into that entity. If that entity, which will own and operate the refinery, is not profitable in the future, we may not be able to recover the amount invested. This, in turn, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We may be unable to retain our investment in our Malaysian biodiesel project. The Malaysian biodiesel project joint venture agreement allows for capital calls from shareholders where additional funds are required by the joint venture company. The investment we hold in the Malaysian biodiesel project may require us to inject further capital funds into the project. If we have insufficient funds to meet such a capital call, our shareholding may be diluted. This, in turn, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Risks Related to Our Strategy The joint venture company may not be able to restart refining operations. The refining operations are currently being retrofitted with new technology. Should profitable opportunities present themselves there can be no assurance that the joint venture company would be able to restart refining operations. Further the joint venture company can make no assurances as to its ability or cost thereof to attract necessary staff, obtain working capital lines and re-commission the equipment. The joint venture company may be unable to sell its assets for fair market value or sell them at all. If the joint venture company sells its assets, it may not be able to realize its original investment and as such upon the sale of its assets can provide no assurance as to the realization of proceeds for us or our shareholders. We may be unable to continue our business in renewable energy or any other industry. If the joint venture company sells all its assets, it may not be able to find suitable projects to continue business in the renewable energy sector. If this is the case, we may require shareholder approval to change our strategic direction, may not qualify for ASX listing and may not have sufficient capital beyond settling our obligations to launch any new business activities. The joint venture company’s future growth will depend on its ability to establish and maintain strategic relationships with distributors and feedstock suppliers. The joint venture company’s future growth depends on its ability to establish and maintain relationships with third parties, including distributors and feedstock suppliers. It may not be able to establish strategic relationships with third parties on satisfactory terms or at all, and any arrangements that are entered into may not result in the type of collaborative relationship with the third party that is expected. Further, these third parties may not place sufficient importance on their relationship with the joint venture company and may not perform their obligations as agreed. Any failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with distributors and feedstock suppliers would have a material adverse effect on the business. We currently are not generating revenue or earnings from operations and thus we may be unable to fund our operational and capital requirements and we may be unable to obtain adequate financing on favorable terms to meet these needs. We currently expect that our cash resources will be used to fund operating losses and capital expenditures. Should we become operational, we may also require substantial working capital. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in generating sufficient revenue and we may require financing to meet our needs. 12 Our ability to access equity and debt capital and trade financing on favorable terms may be limited by factors such as: ·general economic and market conditions; ·conditions in energy markets; ·credit availability from banks or other lenders for us and our industry peers; ·investor confidence in the industry; ·the operation of the refinery; ·our financial performance; and ·our levels of indebtedness. Our ability to access equity capital is limited without shareholder approval and we may be unable to obtain the required shareholder approval to obtain financing in future equity offerings. Our ability to access equity capital is also limited by ASX Listing Rule 7.1, which provides that a company must not, subject to specified exceptions (including approval by shareholders), issue or agree to issue during any 12-month period any equity securities, or other securities with rights to conversion to equity, if the number of those securities exceeds 25% of the number of securities in the same class on issue at the commencement of that 12-month period. Our ability to issue shares in certain subsequent offerings will be restricted by this 25% annual placement capacity to the extent that we are unable to obtain shareholder approval of the additional offerings. Risks Related to Our Industry A decline in the price of diesel or other fuel sources or an increase in their supply could constrain the selling price of the joint venture company’s biodiesel. Biodiesel prices are influenced by market prices for petroleum diesel, the pricing of which is affected by global and domestic market prices for crude oil. The pricing of petroleum diesel is also subject to typical market movements and decreases when there is an increase in supply in the face of unchanged or decreased demand. To remain competitive, the price of biodiesel tends to decrease as the price of petroleum diesel decreases. As a result, any decline in petroleum prices will likely lead to lower prices for biodiesel. If the price of inputs, such as palm oil (or other) feedstock, is greater than the price of biodiesel in the market, the joint venture company will be unable to make profitable sales and production would likely be halted. We did not operate the refinery in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 due to shut down of the refinery. We only operated the refinery for the six months in fiscal 2012 and nine months in fiscal 2011 due to negative spreads that existed between the potential sales price of biodiesel and the input costs to produce the biodiesel. Since selling the refinery to the joint venture company earlier this year, the refinery has remained shut down. Declines in the pricing of biodiesel relative to the cost of the inputs for production may cause the joint venture company to continue the halt in production in the future, which may materially and adversely affect the joint venture company’s performance. The biodiesel industry is a new industry and its continued development is subject to a number of risks and obstacles. The joint venture company’s primary product is biodiesel. The global biodiesel industry is still developing as compared to petroleum-based fuels. Biodiesel has experienced significant fluctuations in growth during that last few years and demand for biodiesel as the primary product may not grow as rapidly as expected or at all. Biodiesel and the global biodiesel industry, as a whole, also face a number of obstacles and drawbacks, including: ·gelling at lower temperatures than petroleum diesel, which can require the use of low percentage biodiesel blends in colder climates or the use of heated fuel tanks; ·potential water contamination that can complicate handling and long-term storage; ·reluctance on the part of some auto manufacturers and industry groups to endorse biodiesel and their recommendations against the use of biodiesel or high percentage biodiesel blends; ·potentially reduced fuel economy due to the lower energy content of biodiesel as compared with petroleum diesel; 13 ·development of alternative fuels and energy sources may reduce the demand for biodiesel; and ·potentially impaired growth due to a lack of infrastructure such as dedicated rail tanker cars and truck fleets, sufficient storage facilities, and refining and blending facilities. Delayed market acceptance of the products may adversely affect pricing and profitability. The lack of infrastructure to store, ship and distribute the products may also increase logistical costs and diminish profitability for the joint venture company. The joint venture company may be subjected to new or amended standards for biodiesel from time to time and required to modify our production process or procure alternate or additional feedstock. New standards may be introduced and existing standards may be amended or repealed from time to time. The production of biodiesel that meets stringent quality standards is complex. Concerns about fuel quality may impact the ability to successfully market and sell biodiesel. If the joint venture company is unable to produce biodiesel that meets the industry quality standard, its credibility and the market acceptance and sales of its biodiesel could be negatively affected. In addition, actual or perceived problems with quality control in the industry generally may lead to a lack of consumer confidence in biodiesel. This could result in a decrease in demand or mandates for biodiesel, with a resulting decrease in revenue for the joint venture company. A change to the quality standards for biodiesel in any market in which the joint venture company sells biodiesel may require it to modify its production process or procure alternate or additional feedstock, which may affect the joint venture company’s revenue and expenditure and adversely affect its results of operations. The joint venture company faces significant competition from existing and new competitors, as well as competing technologies and other clean energy sources. The primary product is a substitute for mineral diesel and a global commodity and as such is highly cost competitive. There are already many global producers of biodiesel with which the joint venture company will compete. While these existing competitors are limited by installed refining capacity, it is expected that there may be further new entrants into the market if economic opportunities present themselves thereby increasing competition. In addition to existing and new direct competitors, as a relatively new industry with distribution channels still in the development stage, market forces may limit the joint venture company’s access to end markets or make costs of delivering product to end-users uncompetitive. Future financial performance and earnings growth of the joint venture company may be adversely affected if either of the above occurs. In addition, new technologies may be developed or implemented for alternative energy sources and products that use such energy sources. Advances in the development of fuels other than biodiesel, or the development of products that use energy sources other than diesel, such as gasoline hybrid vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles, could significantly reduce demand for biodiesel and thus affect the joint venture company’s sales. Biodiesel also faces competition from fuel additives that help petroleum diesel burn cleaner and therefore reduce the comparative environmental benefits of biodiesel in relation to petroleum diesel. Other clean energy sources such as liquefied petroleum gas, hydrogen and electricity from clean sources may be more cost-effective to produce, store, distribute or use, more environmentally friendly, or otherwise more successfully developed for commercial production than the joint venture company’s products. These other energy sources may also receive greater government support than these products in the form of subsidies, incentives or minimum use requirements. As a result, demand for the products may decline and the business model may no longer be viable and results of operations and financial condition of the joint venture company may be materially adversely affected. The introduction, increase in the availability or reduction in costs of alternative energy sources may materially and adversely affect the demand for products and financial performance. Any increase in competition arising from an increase in the number or size of competitors or from competing technologies or other clean energy sources may result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margins, loss of market share and departure of key management, any of which could adversely affect the joint venture company’s financial condition and profitability. 14 Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Unless an active trading market develops for our securities, you may not be able to sell your ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares were delisted from trading on The NASDAQ Global Market effective July 9, 2012 and currently trade on the OTC Markets Pink Sheets under the symbol “MNELF” and on the Australian Stock Exchange, or ASX, under the symbol “MBT.” Although we are a reporting company, currently there is only a limited trading market for our ordinary shares and a more active trading market may never develop or, if it does develop, may not be maintained. Failure to develop or maintain an active trading market will have a generally negative effect on the price of our ordinary shares, and you may be unable to sell your ordinary shares or any attempted sale of such ordinary shares may have the effect of lowering the market price, and therefore, your investment could be a partial or complete loss. As a foreign private issuer, we follow certain home country corporate governance practices which may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices. As a company incorporated in Australia and listed on the ASX, we expect to follow our home country practice with respect to the composition of our board of directors and nominations committee and executive sessions. The corporate governance practice and requirements in Australia do not require us as to have a majority of our board of directors to be independent, do not require us to establish a nominations committee, and do not require us to hold regular executive sessions where only independent directors shall be present. Such Australian home country practices may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. We may to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current fiscal year ending June 30, 2016. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any fiscal year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during the fiscal year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If we are a PFIC for any fiscal year during which a U.S. holder (as defined in “Item 10.E - Additional Information Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”) holds an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holder. See “Item 10.E - Additional Information Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Investors may be unable to enforce your legal rights against us. We are incorporated in Australia. Substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult for investors to enforce, outside of the United States, judgments against us that are obtained in the United States in any such actions, including actions predicated on civil liability provisions of securities laws of the United States. In addition, all of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of countries outside of the United States, and all, or a substantial portion of, their assets are outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to serve process on these persons in the United States or to enforce judgments against them obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are quoted in Australian dollars on the ASX and in U.S. dollars on the OTC Markets Pink Sheets. Movements in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate may adversely affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares. In the past year the Australian dollar has generally depreciated against the U.S. dollar. Any continuation of this trend may affect the U.S. dollar price of our ordinary shares, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. However, this trend may not continue and may be reversed. 15 Risks Relating to Takeovers Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. We are incorporated in Australia and are subject to the takeovers laws of Australia. Among other things, we are subject to the Australian Corporations Act 2001, or the Corporations Act. Subject to a range of exceptions, the Corporations Act prohibits the acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in our issued voting shares if the acquisition of that interest will lead to a person’s voting power in us increasing from 20% or below to more than 20%, or increasing from a starting point that is above 20% and below 90%. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our ordinary shares. This may have the ancillary effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit our shareholders’ strategic opportunities to sell their ordinary shares and may restrict the ability of our shareholders to obtain a premium from such transactions. Our Constitution and other Australian laws and regulations applicable to us may adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. As an Australian company, we are subject to different corporate requirements than a corporation organized under the laws of the United States. Our Constitution, as well as the Corporations Act, set forth various rights and obligations that are unique to us as an Australian company. These requirements operate differently than from many U.S. companies and may limit or otherwise adversely affect our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our shareholders. For more information, you should carefully review the summary of these matters set forth under the section entitled, “Item 10.B — Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association” as well as our Constitution. 