ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock or other securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks develops into 19 Table of Contents actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of our common stock or other securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Investors should be particularly cautious regarding investments in our common stock or other securities at the present time in light of the current economic circumstances. We are predominately a sub-prime lender, and our customers have been adversely impacted by the loss of jobs and the overall decline in the economy. Our Cash Flows and Net Income Are Dependent Upon Payments from Our Loans and Fees Receivable and Other Credit Products The collectibility of our loans and fees receivable is a function of many factors including the criteria used to select who is issued credit, the pricing of the credit products, the lengths of the relationships, general economic conditions, the rate at which customers repay their accounts or become delinquent, and the rate at which customers borrow funds from us. Deterioration in these factors, which we have experienced over the past few years, adversely impacts our business. In addition, to the extent we have over-estimated collectibility, in all likelihood we have over-estimated our financial performance. Some of these concerns are discussed more fully below. Our portfolio of receivables is not diversified and originates from customers whose creditworthiness is considered sub-prime. Historically, we have obtained receivables in one of two ways—we have either solicited for the origination of the receivables or purchased pools of receivables from other issuers. In either case, substantially all of our receivables are from financially underserved borrowers—borrowers represented by credit risks that regulators classify as “sub-prime.” Our reliance on sub-prime receivables has negatively impacted and may in the future negatively impact, our performance. Our various past and current losses might have been mitigated had our portfolios consisted of higher-grade receivables in addition to our sub-prime receivables. We have no immediate plans to issue or acquire significant higher-grade receivables. We may not successfully evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers and may not price our credit products so as to remain profitable. The creditworthiness of our target market generally is considered “sub-prime” based on guidance issued by the agencies that regulate the banking industry. Thus, our customers generally have a higher frequency of delinquencies, higher risks of nonpayment and, ultimately, higher credit losses than consumers who are served by more traditional providers of consumer credit. Some of the consumers included in our target market are consumers who are dependent upon finance companies, consumers with only retail store credit cards and/or lacking general purpose credit cards, consumers who are establishing or expanding their credit, and consumers who may have had a delinquency, a default or, in some instances, a bankruptcy in their credit histories, but who, in our view, have demonstrated recovery. We price our credit products taking into account the perceived risk level of our customers. If our estimates are incorrect, customer default rates will be higher, we will receive less cash from the receivables and the value of our loans and fees receivable will decline, all of which will have a negative impact on performance. In recent years, payment rates by our customers fell and remain somewhat depressed, thereby also contributing to correspondingly higher default rates than we experienced prior to the recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 (the “2007 to 2009 recession”). While there have been some modest improvements, it is unclear how long these changes will last and whether, for instance, the federal government’s economic stimulus programs ultimately will offset them. Economic slowdowns increase our credit losses. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, we experience an increase in rates of delinquencies and frequency and severity of credit losses. Our actual rates of delinquencies and frequency and severity of credit losses may be comparatively higher during periods of economic slowdown or recession than those experienced by more traditional providers of consumer credit because of our focus on the financially underserved consumer market, which may be disproportionately impacted. Other economic and social factors, including, among other things, changes in consumer confidence levels, the public’s perception of the use of credit and changing attitudes about incurring debt, and the stigma of personal bankruptcy, also can impact credit use and account performance. Moreover, adverse changes in economic conditions in states where customers are located, including as a result of severe weather, can have a direct impact on the timing and amount of payments of receivables. Recent trends in the U.S. economy indicate a period characterized by months of economic downturn or recession followed by modest recovery. We have not seen significant improvements in payment and default rates thus far in the recovery. Lasting trends of this nature can more significantly, and more negatively, impact our business. We are subject to foreign economic and exchange risks. Because of our investments in the U.K., we have exposure to fluctuations in the U.K. economy, recent fluctuations in which have been significantly negative. We also have exposure to fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Because the British pound has experienced a net decline in value relative to the U.S. dollar since we made the most significant of our investments in the U.K., we have experienced significant transaction and translation losses within our financial statements. Because a significant portion of our reported income is based on management’s estimates of the future performance of our loans and fees receivable, differences between actual and expected performance of the receivables may cause fluctuations in net income. Significant portions of our reported income (or losses) are based on management’s 20 Table of Contents estimates of cash flows we expect to receive on our loans and fees receivable, particularly for such assets that we report based at fair value. The expected cash flows are based on management’s estimates of interest rates, default rates, payment rates, cardholder purchases, servicing costs, and discount rates. These estimates are based on a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. Substantial differences between actual and expected performance of the receivables will occur and cause fluctuations in our net income. For instance, higher than expected rates of delinquencies and losses could cause our net income to be lower than expected. Similarly, as we have experienced for our credit card receivables portfolios with respect to financing agreements secured by our loans and fees receivable, levels of loss and delinquency can result in our being required to repay our lenders earlier than expected, thereby reducing funds available to us for future growth. Because all of our credit card receivables structured financing facilities are now in amortization status—which for us generally means that the only meaningful cash flows that we are receiving with respect the credit card receivables that are encumbered by such structured financing facilities are those associated with our contractually specified fee for servicing the receivables—recent payment and default trends have substantially reduced the cash flow that we receive from these receivables. Seasonal factors may result in fluctuations in our net income. Our quarterly income may fluctuate substantially as a result of seasonal consumer spending. In particular, our customers may borrow more during the year-end holiday season and during the late summer vacation and back-to-school period, resulting in corresponding increases in the receivables. Due to the lack of historical experience with Internet customers, we may not be able to target successfully these customers or evaluate their creditworthiness. There is less historical experience with respect to the credit risk and performance of customers acquired over the Internet. As a result, we may not be able to target and evaluate successfully the creditworthiness of these potential customers should we engage in marketing efforts to acquire these customers. Therefore, we may encounter difficulties managing the expected delinquencies and losses and appropriately pricing our products. We Are Substantially Dependent Upon Borrowed Funds to Fund the Receivables That We Originate or Purchase All of our financing facilities are of finite duration (and ultimately will need to be extended or replaced) and contain financial covenants and other conditions that must be fulfilled in order for funding to be available. Moreover, most of these facilities currently are in amortization stages (and are not allowing for the funding of any new loans), either based on their original terms or because we have not met financial or asset performance-related covenants. The cost and availability of equity and borrowed funds is dependent upon our financial performance, the performance of our industry generally and general economic and market conditions, and at times equity and borrowed funds have been both expensive and difficult to obtain. Most recently, funding for sub-prime lending has been largely unavailable. Some of these concerns are discussed more fully below. As our financing facilities mature or experience early amortization events, the proceeds from the underlying receivables will not be available to us for reinvestment or other purposes. Absent early amortization events, repayment for our credit card financing facilities typically has begun approximately one year prior to their maturity dates. Once repayment begins and until the facility is paid, payments from customers on the underlying receivables are accumulated to repay the lenders and no longer are reinvested in new receivables. When a financing facility matures, the underlying trust continues to own the receivables, and the maturing facility retains its priority in payments on the underlying receivables until it is repaid in full. As a result, new purchases need to be funded using debt, equity or a replacement facility subordinate to the maturing facility’s interest in the underlying receivables. If we are obligated to repay a securitization facility and we also are unable to obtain alternative sources of liquidity, such as debt, equity or new financing facilities that are structurally subordinate to the facility being repaid, we generally are forced to prohibit new purchases in some or all of our accounts in order to reduce our need for any additional cash. Such is our situation currently, and in response to this situation, we have closed all of our credit card accounts that are pledged as security for underlying financing facilities to new purchases. We may be unable to obtain capital from third parties needed to fund our existing loans and fees receivable, lenders under our debt facilities may be unable or unwilling to meet their contractual commitments to provide us funding, or we may be forced to rely on more expensive funding sources than those that we have today. We need equity or debt capital to fund any portion of our loans and fees receivable against which lenders are unable or unwilling to advance or lend to us. Investors should be aware of our dependence on third parties for funding and our exposure to increases in costs for that funding. External factors, including the general economy, impact our ability to obtain funds. These factors have been significant enough in the recent past that we have not been able to raise cash by issuing additional debt or equity or by selling a portion of our subordinated loans and fees receivable interests at acceptable pricing. As a result, like all participants in the sub-prime market place, we continue to operate under liquidity constraints. Our growth is dependent on our ability to add new financing facilities. We finance our receivables in large part through financing facilities. Beginning in 2007, largely as a result of difficulties in the sub-prime mortgage market, new 21 Table of Contents financing generally has been unavailable to sub-prime lenders, and the financing that has been available has been on significantly less favorable terms. As a result, beginning in the third quarter of 2007, we significantly curtailed our marketing for new credit cards and currently are not issuing a significant number of new cards. Moreover, commencing in October 2008 we reduced credit lines and closed a significant number of accounts in response to the unavailability of financing and to reduce our risk exposure. These activities continued into 2009 and, as a result, substantially all of our credit cards are now closed to cardholder purchases. If additional financing facilities are not available in the future on terms we consider acceptable, we will not be able to grow our credit card business and it will continue to contract in size. Our Financial Performance Is, in Part, a Function of the Aggregate Amount of Receivables That Are Outstanding The aggregate amount of outstanding receivables is a function of many factors including purchase rates, payment rates, interest rates, seasonality, general economic conditions, competition from other credit card issuers and other sources of consumer financing, access to funding, the timing and extent of our marketing efforts and the success of our marketing efforts. Our business currently is contracting. Growth is a product of a combination of factors, many of which are not in our control. Factors include: • the level of our marketing efforts; • the success of our marketing efforts; • the degree to which we lose business to competitors; • the level of usage of our credit products by our customers; • the availability of portfolios for purchase on attractive terms; • levels of delinquencies and charge offs; • the availability of funding on favorable terms; • the level of costs of soliciting new customers; • our ability to employ and train new personnel; • our ability to maintain adequate management systems, collection procedures, internal controls and automated systems; and • general economic and other factors beyond our control. We substantially eliminated our marketing efforts and have aggressively reduced credit lines and closed credit card accounts. In addition, the general economy has been experiencing a significant downturn, which has significantly impacted not just the level of usage of our credit products by our customers but also levels of payments and delinquencies and other performance metrics. As a result, our business currently is contracting, and until market conditions reverse, we do not expect overall net growth in our credit card business. Our decisions regarding marketing have a significant impact on our growth. We can increase or decrease the size of our outstanding receivables balances by increasing or decreasing our marketing efforts. Marketing is expensive, and during periods when we have less liquidity than we like or when prospects for continued liquidity in the future do not look promising, we have limited our marketing and thereby our growth. We decreased our credit card marketing during 2003, although we increased such marketing in 2004 through 2006 because of our improved access to capital. Similarly, we significantly curtailed our credit cards marketing in August 2007 because of uncertainty regarding future access to capital as a result of difficulties in the sub-prime mortgage market and, except as to current marketing activities associated with our Investment in Previously Charged-Off Receivables segment’s balance transfer program and limited U.S. and U.K. test programs, we currently have ceased credit card marketing activities. We Operate in a Heavily Regulated Industry Changes in bankruptcy, privacy or other consumer protection laws, or to the prevailing interpretation thereof, may expose us to litigation, adversely affect our ability to collect account balances in connection with our traditional credit card business, our debt collection subsidiary’s charged-off receivables operations, and our auto finance and micro-loan activities, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Similarly, regulatory changes could adversely affect our ability or willingness to market credit cards and other products and services to our customers. The accounting rules that govern our business are 22 Table of Contents exceedingly complex, difficult to apply and in a state of flux. As a result, how we value our receivables and otherwise account for our business is subject to change depending upon the changes in, and, interpretation of, those rules. Some of these issues are discussed more fully below. Reviews and enforcement actions by regulatory authorities under banking and consumer protection laws and regulations may result in changes to our business practices, may make collection of account balances more difficult or may expose us to the risk of fines, restitution and litigation. Our operations, and the operations of the issuing banks through which we originate credit products, are subject to the jurisdiction of federal, state and local government authorities, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the SEC, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the FTC, U.K. banking authorities, state regulators having jurisdiction over financial institutions and debt origination and collection and state attorneys general. Our business practices, including the terms of our products and our marketing, servicing and collection practices, are subject to both periodic and special reviews by these regulatory and enforcement authorities. These reviews can range from investigations of specific consumer complaints or concerns to broader inquiries into our practices generally. If as part of these reviews the regulatory authorities conclude that we are not complying with applicable law, they could request or impose a wide range of remedies including requiring changes in advertising and collection practices, changes in the terms of our products (such as decreases in interest rates or fees), the imposition of fines or penalties, or the paying of restitution or the taking of other remedial action with respect to affected customers. They also could require us to stop offering some of our products, either nationally or in selected states. To the extent that these remedies are imposed on the issuing banks through which we originate credit products, under certain circumstances we are responsible for the remedies as a result of our indemnification obligations with those banks. We also may elect to change practices or products that we believe are compliant with law in order to respond to regulatory concerns. Furthermore, negative publicity relating to any specific inquiry or investigation could hurt our ability to conduct business with various industry participants or to attract new accounts and could negatively affect our stock price, which would adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and would raise our costs of doing business. If any deficiencies or violations of law or regulations are identified by us or asserted by any regulator, or if the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the FDIC, the FTC or any other regulator requires us to change any of our practices, the correction of such deficiencies or violations, or the making of such changes, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business. In addition, whether or not we modify our practices when a regulatory or enforcement authority requests or requires that we do so, there is a risk that we or other industry participants may be named as defendants in litigation involving alleged violations of federal and state laws and regulations, including consumer protection laws. Any failure to comply with legal requirements by us or the issuing banks through which we originate credit products in connection with the issuance of those products, or by us or our agents as the servicer of our accounts, could significantly impair our ability to collect the full amount of the account balances. The institution of any litigation of this nature, or any judgment against us or any other industry participant in any litigation of this nature, could adversely affect our business and financial condition in a variety of ways. Increases in required minimum payment levels have impacted our business adversely. For some time, regulators of credit card issuers have requested or required that issuers increase their minimum monthly payment requirements to prevent so-called “negative amortization,” in which the monthly minimum payment is not sufficient to reduce the outstanding balance even if new purchases are not made. This can be caused by, among other things, the imposition of over-limit, late and other fees. In response to comments about minimum payments and negative amortization received from the FDIC in the course of its routine examinations of the banks that issued credit cards on our behalf, we made a number of changes to our practices over the past several years, including our discontinuation of finance charges and fee billings on credit card accounts once they become 90 or more days delinquent, the reversal of fees and finance charges on the accounts of cardholders who made payments so that those accounts would not be in negative amortization, and the modification of our minimum payment requirements in some cases to require a minimum payment equal to 1% of the outstanding balance plus any finance charges and late fees billed in the current cycle. Based on our various changes to our practices in this area, only an insignificant portion of our U.S. credit card receivables experience negative amortization. The changes that we have made have adversely impacted and are likely in the future to adversely impact amounts collected from cardholders and therefore our reported fee income and delinquency and charge-off statistics. Additionally, should regulators require more rapid amortization of credit card account balances by banks, we could be required to may make further payment and fee-related changes that could adversely affect our financial position and future results of operations. We are dependent upon banks to issue credit cards. Historically our credit card operations have been and our modest balance transfer program and test issuances currently are entirely dependent on our issuing bank relationships, and their regulators could at any time limit their ability to issue some or all products on our behalf, or that we service on their behalf, or to modify those products significantly. Any significant interruption of those relationships would result in our being unable to originate new receivables and other credit products. It is possible that a regulatory position or action taken with respect to any of the issuing banks through which we have originated credit products or for whom we service receivables might result in the bank’s inability or unwillingness to originate future credit products on our behalf or in partnership with us. In the current state, such a disruption of our issuing bank relationships would adversely affect our ability to grow our balance 23 Table of Contents transfer program (and potentially the profitability of the program if issuing bank partners were to require account closures) within our Investments in Previously Charged-Off Receivables segment and to conduct our limited market testing of credit card issuances in the U.K. Changes to consumer protection laws or changes in their interpretation may impede collection efforts or otherwise adversely impact our business practices. Federal and state consumer protection laws regulate the creation and enforcement of consumer credit card receivables and other loans. Many of these laws (and the related regulations) are focused on sub-prime lenders and are intended to prohibit or curtail industry-standard practices as well as non-standard practices. For instance, Congress enacted legislation that regulates loans to military personnel through imposing interest rate and other limitations and requiring new disclosures, all as regulated by the Department of Defense. Similarly, in 2009 Congress enacted legislation that required changes to a variety of marketing, billing and collection practices, and the Federal Reserve recently adopted significant changes to a number of practices through its issuance of regulations. While our practices are in compliance with these changes, some of the changes (e.g., limitations on the ability to assess up-front fees) have significantly affected the viability of certain of our prior (in particular our lower-tier) product offerings. Changes in the consumer protection laws could result in the following: • receivables not originated in compliance with law (or revised interpretations) could become unenforceable and uncollectible under their terms against the obligors; • we may be required to credit or refund previously collected amounts; • certain fees could be prohibited or restricted, which would reduce the profitability of certain accounts; • certain of our collection methods could be prohibited, forcing us to revise our practices or adopt more costly or less effective practices; • limitations on the content of marketing materials could be imposed that would result in reduced success for our marketing efforts; • federal and state laws may limit our ability to recover on charged-off receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part; • reductions in statutory limits for finance charges could require us to reduce our fees and charges; • some of our products and services could be banned in certain states or at the federal level; • federal or state bankruptcy or debtor relief laws could offer additional protections to customers seeking bankruptcy protection, providing a court greater leeway to reduce or discharge amounts owed to us; and • a reduction in our ability or willingness to lend to certain individuals, such as military personnel. Material regulatory developments are likely to impact our business and results from operations. Negative publicity may impair acceptance of our products. Critics of sub-prime credit and micro-loan providers have in the past focused on marketing practices that they claim encourage consumers to borrow more money than they should, as well as on pricing practices that they claim are either confusing or result in prices that are too high. Consumer groups, Internet chat sites and media reports frequently characterize sub-prime lenders as predatory or abusive toward consumers and may misinform consumers regarding their rights. If these negative characterizations and misinformation become widely accepted by consumers, demand for our products and services could be adversely impacted. Increased criticism of the industry or criticism of us in the future could hurt customer acceptance of our products or lead to changes in the law or regulatory environment, either of which would significantly harm our business. Because of the Recent and Ongoing Contraction of Our Credit Cards and Auto Finance Businesses and the Growth of Our Retail and Internet Micro-Loan Businesses, Our Micro-Loan Businesses Are Now a Larger Component of Our Financial Position and Results of Operations Legislative, regulatory and consumer activism toward the micro-loans industry is particularly active and at times particularly hostile, and changes in applicable laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could have a materially adverse effect on our micro-loan businesses, their prospects, our results of operations and our financial condition. Both our continuing U.S. retail and internet micro-loan businesses and our held-for-sale MEM U.K. micro-loan business (which is categorized as a discontinued operation on our consolidated statements of operations) are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations, which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs, limitations or prohibitions on the way we conduct or expand these 24 Table of Contents businesses. These regulations govern or affect, among other things, interest rates and other fees, check cashing fees, lending practices, recording and reporting of certain financial transactions, privacy of personal consumer information and collection practices. As we develop new product and service offerings, we may become subject to additional federal, state and local regulations. State and local governments also may seek to impose new licensing requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. In addition, changes in current laws and future laws or regulations may restrict or eliminate our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations; such laws regularly are proposed, introduced or adopted at the state and federal level in the U.S. and in the U.K. A federal law that imposes a national cap on our micro-loan fees and interest likely would eliminate our ability to continue our current micro-loan businesses in the U.S. Various anti-cash advance legislation has been proposed or introduced in the U.S. Congress. Congressional members continue to receive pressure to adopt such legislation from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups. Any federal legislative or regulatory action that severely restricts or prohibits cash advance and similar services, if enacted, could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Any federal law that would impose a national 36% APR limit on our services likely would eliminate our ability to continue our current operations. Moreover, we do not yet know the potential future effects that the recent enactment of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, along with its creation of a federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with jurisdiction over U.S. micro-loan product offerings, will have on our U.S. micro-loan activities, and it is possible that the effects may not be known for several months or years. Such effects, however, could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The micro-loans industry is regulated under federal law and subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practices statutes. Our failure to comply with these regulations and statutes could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Although states provide the primary regulatory framework under which we offer cash advances within the U.S., certain federal laws also impact our business. We must comply with the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that act. Additionally, we are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. We also are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Act, and the PATRIOT Act. Any failure to comply with any of these federal laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our marketing efforts and the representations we make about our products and services also are subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practices statutes. The FTC enforces the Federal Trade Commission Act and the state attorneys general and private plaintiffs enforce the analogous state statutes. If we are found to have violated any of these statutes, that violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The micro-loans industry is highly regulated under state law. Changes in state laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is regulated under a variety of enabling state statutes, including cash advance, deferred presentment, check cashing, money transmission, small loan and credit services organization laws, all of which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs, limitations or prohibitions on the way we conduct or expand our business. As of December 31, 2010, 36 states had specific laws that permitted cash advances or a similar form of short-term consumer loans. As of December 31, 2010, we operated in 8 of these 36 states under traditional enabling statutes, and we offered a small loan product in Ohio under the Ohio Mortgage Loan Act. Currently, we do not conduct business in the remaining states or in the District of Columbia because we do not believe it is economically attractive to operate in these jurisdictions due to specific legislative restrictions, such as interest rate ceilings, an unattractive population density or unattractive location characteristics. However, we may open storefronts in any of these states if we believe doing so may become economically attractive because of a change in any of these variables. During the last few years, legislation has been introduced or adopted in some states that prohibits or severely restricts our products and services. In 2008, bills that would severely restrict or effectively prohibit cash advances if adopted as law were introduced in 21 states. Also, in 2009, the enabling statutes in both Kentucky and South Carolina were amended to require, among other things, the use of a common database to track and limit the number of micro-loans a consumer may have outstanding at a given time. Although our experience to date with the implementation of database requirements in Kentucky and South Carolina has not materially affected our business, it has caused us to lose customers because many of our customers had outstanding loans with our competitors in addition to us, and it has resulted in some contractions in our outstanding micro-loan receivables and earnings thereon. Moreover, any such new or modified legislation (like the Wisconsin database requirements that went into effect on January 1, 2011) could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, Mississippi has a sunset provision in its cash advance laws that requires renewals of the laws by the state legislature at periodic intervals, and the cash advance laws will expire in 2012 if no further action is taken; an expiration of these laws could have a detrimental impact on our ability to issue existing or new micro-loan products within the state. 25 Table of Contents Ohio is another example of how laws prohibiting cash advances and similar products and services or making them less profitable, or even unprofitable, could be passed in any other state at any time or existing enabling laws could expire or be amended, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In November 2008, a new Ohio law became effective that capped interest rates on cash advances and limited the number of advances a customer may take in any one year. In response to this legislation, we now offer a small loan product that is not as profitable as our former cash advance product, and our current operations in Ohio are under significant scrutiny by the Ohio Attorney General, thereby causing us evaluate alternative business and lending models that will allow our continued profitable operations in Ohio for the foreseeable future; should there be legislative or regulatory changes in Ohio in the future that affect the viability of our product offerings in that state, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition, particularly given our revenue concentration in that state as noted below. Statutes authorizing cash advance and similar products and services typically provide the state agencies that regulate banks and financial institutions with significant regulatory powers to administer and enforce the law. In most states, we are required to apply for a license, file periodic written reports regarding business operations and undergo comprehensive state examinations to ensure that we comply with applicable laws. Under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, that affect the way we do business and may force us to terminate or modify our operations in particular states. They also may impose rules that are generally adverse to our industry. Any new licensing requirements or rules, or new interpretations of existing licensing requirements or rules, or failure to follow licensing requirements or rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In some cases, we rely on the interpretations of the staff of state regulatory bodies with respect to the laws and regulations of their respective jurisdictions. These staff interpretations generally are not binding legal authority and may be subject to challenge in administrative or judicial proceedings. Additionally, as the staff of state regulatory bodies change, it is possible that their interpretations of applicable laws and regulations also may change to the detriment of our business. As a result, our reliance on staff interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, state attorneys general and banking regulators are scrutinizing cash advances and other alternative financial products and services and taking actions that require us to modify, suspend or cease operations in their respective states. For example, our subsidiaries decided to exit North Carolina, West Virginia and Arkansas in settlement of reviews by applicable state regulators. Similar or additional actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our U.K. MEM operations that we classify as held for sale and accordingly as discontinued operations are subject to differing laws and regulations. Pending the completion of our sale of these operations, our inability to operate in the U.K. in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and changes in those applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition of our MEM operations. In the U.K., consumer lending is governed by the Consumer Credit Act of 1974, which was amended by the Consumer Credit Act of 2006, and related rules and regulations. Our subsidiaries in the U.K. must maintain licenses from the OFT, which is responsible for regulating consumer credit and competition, for policy-making and for consumer protection. The U.K. also has strict rules regarding the presentation, form and content of loan agreements, including statutory warnings and the layout of financial information. Non-compliance with these rules could render a MEM loan agreement unenforceable. MEM’s inability to maintain the required licenses or to comply with the applicable rules or regulations in the U.K. could limit its expansion opportunities and/or could result in a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition as reported within our discontinued operations category on our consolidated statements of operations pending completion of our sale of MEM. The OFT recently completed a review of what it perceives as “high cost credit,” which includes the sector in which we operate in the U.K. The results of this review were released in the second quarter of 2010. It is impossible to speculate on future regulatory or legislative efforts within the U.K. (e.g., attempts to impose interest rate caps or restrictions on repeat borrowings or multiple simultaneous borrowings as have been applied in certain U.S. jurisdictions and some of which currently are advocated by certain U.K. political parties) which could result in materially adverse effects on MEM’s business, results of operations and financial condition as reported within our discontinued operations category on our consolidated statements of operations pending completion of our sale of MEM. Our ability to find additional micro-loan growth opportunities may be limited. We may not be able to maintain or further expand our market presence in our current markets or successfully enter new markets through the opening of new storefronts or acquisitions. Moreover, the start-up costs and the losses from initial operations attributable to each newly opened storefront place demands upon our liquidity and cash flow, and we may not be able to satisfy these demands. 26 Table of Contents Because our Retail Micro-Loans and Internet Micro-Loans segments currently lack product and business diversification, these segments’ revenues and earnings may be disproportionately negatively impacted by external factors and may be more susceptible to fluctuations than more diversified companies. The primary business activity of our micro-loan businesses is offering cash advance products. If we are unable to maintain our cash advance products business and/or diversify our operations, our revenues and earnings could decline. Our current lack of product and business diversification could inhibit our opportunities for growth, reduce our revenues and profits and make us more susceptible to earnings fluctuations than many of our competitors who are more diversified and provide other services such as pawn lending, title lending or other similar services. External factors, such as changes in laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, new entrants and enhanced competition, also could make it more difficult for us to operate as profitably as a more diversified company could operate. Any internal or external change in our industry could result in a decline in our revenues and earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to introduce or manage new products or alternative methods for conducting business in an efficient and profitable manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In order to offer new products, we need to comply with additional regulatory and licensing requirements. Because of such requirements, alternative methods of conducting business and new products are subject to risk and uncertainty and require significant investment in time and capital, including additional marketing expenses, legal costs and other incremental start-up costs. For these reasons and based on our prior experience in offering alternative products, we may not be able to introduce any new products in a successful or timely manner. Furthermore, our failure to offer new products in an efficient manner, or low customer demand for any of these new products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Current and future litigation and regulatory proceedings against our micro-loan businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. micro-loan businesses are subject to lawsuits and regulatory proceedings that could generate adverse publicity and cause us to incur substantial expenditures. See Part II, Item 1, “Legal Proceedings.” Adverse rulings in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could significantly impair our business and/or force us to cease doing business in one or more states or other geographic areas. Our U.S. micro-loan businesses are likely to be subject to further litigation and proceedings in the future. The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation or proceeding could cause us to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate our operations in particular states. We also may be subject to adverse publicity. Defense of any lawsuits or proceedings, even if successful, requires substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and requires the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits also may result in significant payments and modifications to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The concentration of our micro-loan businesses’ revenues in certain geographic areas could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2010, we operated retail storefronts in nine states. Total revenues within Kentucky, Ohio, South Carolina and Wisconsin, our four largest states (measured by revenue), accounted for 73.1% of our continuing micro-loans businesses’ revenue during the year ended December 31, 2010. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence within the U.S., for the near term we expect that significant micro-loan business revenues will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2010, Kentucky, Ohio, South Carolina and Wisconsin each accounted for more than 9.8% of our micro-loans businesses’ revenue, with Ohio accounting for 34.6% of our micro-loans businesses’ revenue during that period. Changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and services, a decline in our revenues or an increase in our provision for losses on loans and fees receivable that could result in a deterioration of our financial condition. A regulatory change similar to the recent changes in Ohio, South Carolina, Kentucky and Wisconsin, or an action by a state regulator similar to those in North Carolina, West Virginia and Arkansas, in any one of our larger states may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. Competition in the micro-loans industry could cause our micro-loan businesses to lose market share, experience increased customer acquisition costs or reduce their interest and fees, possibly resulting in a decline in our revenues and earnings. The industry in which our micro-loan businesses operate has low barriers to entry and is highly fragmented and very competitive. We believe that the market may become even more competitive as the industry matures and/or consolidates. We compete with services provided by traditional financial institutions, such as overdraft protection, and with other cash advance providers, small loan providers, pawn stores, short-term consumer lenders, other financial service entities and other retail businesses that offer consumer loans or other products and services that are similar to ours. We also compete with companies offering cash advances and short-term loans over the Internet as well as by phone. Some of these competitors 27 Table of Contents have larger local or regional customer bases, more locations and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of this increasing competition, we could lose market share or experience increased customer acquisition costs, or we may need to reduce our interest and fees, possibly resulting in a decline in our revenues and earnings. Our micro-loan businesses’ provision for losses on loans and fees receivable may increase and net income may decrease if we are unable to collect customers’ personal checks that are returned due to non-sufficient funds (“NSF”) in the customers’ accounts or other reasons. In the year ended December 31, 2010, our retail storefront operations deposited or presented an Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) authorization for 8.1% of all the customer checks we received and 71.7% of these deposited customer checks or ACH authorizations were returned unpaid or rejected because of non-sufficient funds in the customers’ bank accounts or because of closed accounts or stop-payment orders. Total retail storefront charge offs in the year ended December 31, 2010 were $10.5 million (net of recoveries). An increase in returned checks or rejected ACH authorizations would increase our provision for losses on loans and fees receivable and our allowance for uncollectible loans and fees receivable. Our micro-loan businesses are dependent on cash management services from banks to operate their businesses. If banks decide to stop providing cash management services to companies in the micro-loans industry, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Certain banks have notified us and other companies in the cash advance and check-cashing industries that they will no longer maintain bank accounts for these companies due to reputational risks and increased compliance costs of servicing money services businesses and other cash intensive industries. If one of our larger depository banks requests that we close our bank accounts or puts other restrictions on how we use its services, we could face higher costs of managing our cash and limitations on our ability to maintain or expand our business, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our MEM operations that we classify as held for sale and accordingly as discontinued operations use an electronic debit card process to electronically charge payments against its customers’ bank accounts. MEM depends on its banks to settle these transactions and on certain participating institutions to operate the debit card payment system. If the banks were to decide to cease processing MEM’s transactions, MEM’s ability to collect on accounts could be adversely affected and its cost of collections could increase—thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on MEM’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition as reported within our discontinued operations category on our consolidated statements of operations pending completion of our sale of MEM. Our micro-loan businesses are seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues, collection rates and earnings to fluctuate. These fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our micro-loan businesses are seasonal due to the impact of fluctuating demand for our products and services and fluctuating collection rates throughout the year. Demand has historically been highest in the third and fourth quarters of each year, corresponding to the back-to-school and holiday seasons, and lowest in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers’ receipt of income tax refunds. Typically, our provision for losses on loans and fees receivable is the lowest as a percentage of revenues in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers’ receipt of income tax refunds, and increases as a percentage of revenues for the remainder of each year. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues or collections were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our ability to service any potential future debt, pay any potential future dividends on our common stock and meet our other liquidity requirements may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our micro-loans businesses’ quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future because of the seasonal nature of our business. Therefore, our quarterly revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, which in turn could cause our quarterly results not to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our failure to meet expectations could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. Because we maintain a significant supply of cash in our storefronts, we may be subject to cash shortages due to employee and third-party theft and errors. We also may be subject to liability as a result of crimes at our centers. Because our retail storefront business requires us to maintain a significant supply of cash in each of our storefronts, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from employee and third-party theft and errors. Although we have implemented various programs to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for theft and provide security for our employees and facilities, employee and third- party theft and errors may still occur. There was $206,000 in cash shortages from employee and third-party theft and errors in the year ended December 31, 2010 after factoring in recoveries, which tend to lag the actual period of theft or error. The extent of cash shortages could increase as we expand the nature and scope of our products and services. Theft and errors could lead to cash shortages and could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. It also is possible that crimes such as armed robberies may be committed at our storefronts. We could be subject to legal claims or adverse publicity arising from such crimes. For example, we may be subject to legal claims if an 28 Table of Contents employee, customer or bystander suffers bodily injury, emotional distress or death. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Regular turnover among our managers and employees at our storefronts makes it more difficult for us to operate our storefronts and increases our costs of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The annual 2010 turnover among our storefront managers was 28.8% and among our other storefront employees was 58.9%. This turnover increases our cost of operations and makes it more difficult to operate our storefronts. If we are unable to retain our employees in the future, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our Automobile Lending Activities Involve Risks In Addition to Others Described Herein Automobile lending exposes us not only to most of the risks described above but also to additional risks, including the regulatory scheme that governs installment loans and those attendant to relying upon automobiles and their repossession and liquidation value as collateral. In addition, our most significant active Auto Finance segment business acquires loans on a wholesale basis from used car dealers, for which we rely upon the legal compliance and credit determinations by those dealers. Declines in automobile sales as we saw in recent years can cause declines in the overall demand for automobile loans. While currently recovering fairly significantly, sales of both new and used cars declined precipitously in recent years. While the unavailability of funding may have had a greater impact on our business, the decline in demand in recent years was consequential as well as it adversely affected the volume of our lending transactions and our recoveries of repossessed vehicles at auction. Any such future declines in demand will adversely impact our business. Funding for automobile lending is difficult to obtain and expensive. In large part due to market concerns regarding sub-prime lending, it is difficult to find lenders willing to fund our automobile lending activities. Our inability to obtain debt facilities with desirable terms (e.g., interest rates and advance rates) and the other capital necessary to fund growth within our Auto Finance segment will cause periods (like our current period) of liquidations in our Auto Finance segment receivables and reductions in profitability and returns on equity. We also may not be able to renew or replace any Auto Finance segment facilities that bear refunding or refinancing risks when they become due, in which event our Auto Finance segment could experience significant liquidity constraints and diminution in reported asset values as lenders retain significant cash flows within underlying structured financings or otherwise under security arrangements for repayment of their loans. If we cannot renew or replace facilities or otherwise are unduly constrained from a liquidity perspective, we may choose to sell part or all of our auto loan portfolios, possibly at less than favorable prices. Our automobile lending business is dependent upon referrals from dealers. Currently we provide automobile loans only to or through used car dealers. Providers of automobile financing have traditionally competed based on the interest rate charged, the quality of credit accepted and the flexibility of loan terms offered. In order to be successful, we not only will need to be competitive in these areas, but also will need to establish and maintain good relations with dealers and provide them with a level of service greater than what they can obtain from our competitors. The financial performance of our automobile loan portfolio is in part dependent upon the liquidation of repossessed automobiles. In the event of certain defaults, we may repossess automobiles and sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the U.S. Auction proceeds from these types of sales and other recoveries rarely are sufficient to cover the outstanding balances of the contracts; where we experience these shortfalls, we will experience credit losses. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold in periods of economic slowdown or recession have resulted in higher credit losses for us. Additionally, higher gasoline prices (like those experienced during 2008) tend to decrease the auction value of certain types of vehicles, such as SUVs. Repossession of automobiles entails the risk of litigation and other claims. Although we have contracted with reputable repossession firms to repossess automobiles on defaulted loans, it is not uncommon for consumers to assert that we were not entitled to repossess an automobile or that the repossession was not conducted in accordance with applicable law. These claims increase the cost of our collection efforts and, if correct, can result in awards against us. We Routinely Explore Various Opportunities to Grow Our Business, to Make Investments and to Purchase and Sell Assets We routinely consider acquisitions of, or investments in, portfolios and other assets as well as the sale of portfolios and portions of our business. There are a number of risks attendant to any acquisition, including the possibility that we will overvalue the assets to be purchased and that we will not be able to produce the expected level of profitability from the acquired business or assets. Similarly, there are a number of risks attendant to sales, including the possibility that we will undervalue the assets to be sold. As a result, the impact of any acquisition or sale on our future performance may not be as favorable as expected and actually may be adverse. 29 Table of Contents Portfolio purchases may cause fluctuations in reported credit card managed receivables data, which may reduce the usefulness of historical credit card managed loan data in evaluating our business. Our reported managed credit card receivables data may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter as a result of recent and future credit card portfolio acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, credit card portfolio acquisitions accounted for 40.1% of our total credit card managed receivables portfolio based on our ownership percentages. Receivables included in purchased portfolios are likely to have been originated using credit criteria different from the criteria of issuing bank partners that have originated accounts on our behalf. Receivables included in any particular purchased portfolio may have significantly different delinquency rates and charge-off rates than the receivables previously originated and purchased by us. These receivables also may earn different interest rates and fees as compared to other similar receivables in our receivables portfolio. These variables could cause our reported managed receivables data to fluctuate substantially in future periods making the evaluation of our business more difficult. Any acquisition or investment that we make will involve risks different from and in addition to the risks to which our business is currently exposed. These include the risks that we will not be able to integrate and operate successfully new businesses, that we will have to incur substantial indebtedness and increase our leverage in order to pay for the acquisitions, that we will be exposed to, and have to comply with, different regulatory regimes and that we will not be able to apply our traditional analytical framework (which is what we expect to be able to do) in a successful and value-enhancing manner. We regularly explore investments in other lines of business where we believe the returns will meet our requirements. While these investments have not been significant recently, we expect them to increase in the future as the opportunities to invest in our traditional businesses remain unattractive. These investments may or may not be in areas where we have specialized expertise, and may carry risks in addition to those described above. Other Risks of Our Business Climate change and related regulatory responses may impact our business. Climate change as a result of emissions of greenhouse gases is a significant topic of discussion and may generate federal and other regulatory responses in the near future, including the imposition of a so-called “cap and trade” system. It is impracticable to predict with any certainty the impact on our business of climate change or the regulatory responses to it, although we recognize that they could be significant. The most direct impact is likely to be an increase in energy costs, which would adversely impact consumers and their ability to incur and repay indebtedness. However, it is too soon for us to predict with any certainty the ultimate impact, either directionally or quantitatively, of climate change and related regulatory responses. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. As a result, our cash flow and ability to service our debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries. Our ability to service our debt is dependent upon the cash flows and operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of subsidiary earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by subsidiaries to us, all of which are subject to statutory and could be subject to contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ cash flows and earnings and are subject to various business and debt covenant considerations. In addition, we are considering further restructuring options, including the spin-off of our micro-loan businesses. Unless we obtain a bank charter, we cannot issue credit cards other than through agreements with banks. Because we do not have a bank charter, we currently cannot issue credit cards other than through agreements with banks. Previously we applied for permission to acquire a bank and our application was denied. Unless we obtain a bank or credit card bank charter, we will continue to rely upon banking relationships to provide for the issuance of credit cards to our customers. Even if we obtain a bank charter, there may be restrictions on the types of credit that it may extend. Our various issuing bank agreements have scheduled expirations dates. If we are unable to extend or execute new agreements with our issuing banks at the expirations of our current agreements with them, or if our existing or new agreements with our issuing banks were terminated or otherwise disrupted, there is a risk that we would not be able to enter into agreements with an alternate provider on terms that we consider favorable or in a timely manner without disruption of our business. We are party to substantial litigation. As more fully discussed above, we are defendants in a number of legal proceedings. This includes litigation with holders of our convertible senior notes concerning past and possible future distributions to our shareholders, including the proposed spin-off of our micro-loan businesses, and litigation relating to our retail micro-loan operations and other litigation customary for a business of our nature. In each case we believe that we have meritorious defenses or that the positions we are asserting otherwise are correct. However, adverse outcomes are possible in each of these matters, and we could decide to settle one or more of these matters in order to avoid the cost of litigation or to obtain certainty of outcome. Adverse outcomes or settlements of these matters could require us to pay damages, make restitution, change our business practices or take other actions at a level, or in a manner, that would adversely impact our business. We face heightened levels of economic risk associated with new investment activities. We recently have made a number of investments in businesses that are not directly allied to our traditional lending activities to, or associated with, the 30 Table of Contents underserved consumer credit market. We expect to make other such investments in the future. While we will make only those investments that we believe will provide a favorable return, because some of the investments are outside of our core areas of expertise, they entail risks beyond those described elsewhere in this Report. These risks could result in the loss of part or all of our investments. We may not be able to purchase charged-off receivables at sufficiently favorable prices or terms for our debt collection operations to be successful. The charged-off receivables that Jefferson Capital, our debt collection subsidiary, acquires and services (or resells) have been deemed uncollectible and written off by the originators. Factors causing the acquisition price of targeted portfolios to increase could reduce the ratio of collections (or sales prices received) to acquisitions costs for a given portfolio, and thereby negatively affect Jefferson Capital’s profitability. The availability of charged-off receivables portfolios at favorable prices and on favorable terms depends on a number of factors, including the continuation of the current growth and charge-off trends in consumer receivables, our ability to develop and maintain long-term relationships with key charged-off receivable sellers, our ability to obtain adequate data to appropriately evaluate the collectibility of portfolios and competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and sellers of charged-off receivables, including pricing pressures, which may increase the cost to us of acquiring portfolios of charged-off receivables and reduce our return on such portfolios. Additionally, sellers of charged-off receivables generally make numerous attempts to recover on their non-performing receivables, often using a combination of their in-house collection and legal departments as well as third-party collection agencies. Charged-off receivables are difficult to collect, and we may not be successful in collecting amounts sufficient to cover the costs associated with purchasing the receivables and funding our Jefferson Capital operations. Because we outsource account-processing functions that are integral to our business, any disruption or termination of that outsourcing relationship could harm our business. We outsource account and payment processing, and in 2010, we paid Total System Services, Inc. $14.3 million for these services. If these agreements were not renewed or were terminated or the services provided to us were otherwise disrupted, we would have to obtain these services from an alternative provider, such as First Data Resources, Inc., which currently provides only limited account and payment processing for us. There is a risk that we would not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider on terms that we consider favorable or in a timely manner without disruption of our business. If we obtain a bank charter, any changes in applicable state or federal laws could adversely affect our business. From time-to-time we have explored the possibility of acquiring a bank or credit card bank. If we obtain a bank or credit card bank charter, we will be subject to the various state and federal regulations generally applicable to similar institutions, including restrictions on the ability of the banking subsidiary to pay dividends to us. Any future changes of applicable state and federal laws or regulations could adversely affect the bank’s business and operations. Internet security breaches could damage our reputation and business. As part of our growth strategy, we have originated loans over the Internet. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintaining consumer confidence in our products and services offered online. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer application and transaction data transmitted over the Internet. Security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Moreover, consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Our ability to solicit new loans over the Internet would be severely impeded if consumers become unwilling to transmit confidential information online. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect our operations. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our business. Our back-up systems and security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in our information systems. Any disruption in our information systems due to catastrophic events or other factors could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our systems, procedures, controls and existing personnel may not be adequate to support new or replacement products or to expand into new geographic areas. Our results of operations depend substantially on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and unpredictable regulations and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. Our ability to maintain or further expand our business may require us to develop new or replacement products. In addition, business conditions could make it necessary for us to expand our operations in new geographic areas. Our systems, procedures, controls and existing personnel may not be adequate to support new or replacement products or operations in new geographic areas. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Potential Spin-Off of our Micro-Loan Businesses Our Board of Directors may decide not to approve the spin-off of our micro-loan businesses; even if, our Board of Directors approves the spin-off, the consummation of the spin-off will be subject to a number of conditions. Pending the completion of our sale of our MEM operations that we classify as held for sale and accordingly as discontinued operations, our management is evaluating the proposed spin-off to determine whether the separation of the micro-loan businesses is in our best interests as well as those of our shareholders. Our management may or may not decide to recommend the spin-off to our Board of Directors. In turn, our Board of Directors may or may not decide to approve the spin-off. Even if the Board of Directors approves the spin-off, the consummation of the spin-off will be subject to a number of conditions, including: (1) the SEC’s declaration of Purpose Financial’s registration statement on Form 10 to be effective; (2) our and Purpose Financial’s receipt of all permits, registrations and consents required under the securities or blue sky laws of states or other political subdivisions of the U.S. or of foreign jurisdictions in connection with the spin-off; (3) the private letter ruling that we received from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") not being revoked or modified in any material respect; (4) NASDAQ’s approval for listing of Purpose Financial’s common stock, subject to official notice of issuance; (5) the transfer of our micro-loan businesses, and the associated licenses and registrations relating to these businesses, to Purpose Financial; (6) the execution by the parties of separation and distribution agreements, transition services agreements, services agreements, employee matters agreements, tax sharing agreements, and sublease agreements; and (7) the nonexistence of any effective order, injunction or decree issued by any court of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition that might prevent the consummation of the spin-off or any of the transactions related thereto, including the transfers of assets and liabilities contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement that would be entered into between Purpose Financial and us. If we are not able to meet these conditions, we may not be able to complete the spin-off in a timely manner. If the spin-off is completed, our operational and financial profile will change as a result of the separation of Purpose Financial from our other businesses. As a result, our diversification of revenue sources will diminish, and it is possible that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable for federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to federal income tax could incur significant federal income tax liabilities. In connection with the spin-off, we received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the contribution by us of the assets of the micro-loan businesses to Purpose Financial and the distribution will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”). The ruling relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Purpose Financial and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling, the IRS could determine on audit that the spin-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of Purpose Financial or us after the spin-off. If the spin-off is completed, we will be subject to restrictions on acquisitions involving our stock and other stock issuances and possibly other corporate opportunities in order to enable the spin-off to qualify for tax-free treatment. Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to us under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common stock or Purpose Financial’s common stock is acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of our common stock within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common stock or Purpose Financial’s common stock within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Purpose Financial may be able to rebut that presumption. We are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of our common stock within the two years before the distribution. If an acquisition or issuance of our common stock or Purpose Financial’s common stock triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, we would recognize taxable gain as described above, and certain subsidiaries of ours or subsidiaries of Purpose Financial would incur significant federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the tax sharing agreement that would be entered into between Purpose Financial and us, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the spin-off or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, including entering into, approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 50% of our common stock, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 50% or more of our common stock, or engaging in certain internal transactions. These restrictions apply for the two-year period after the spin-off, unless we obtain a private letter ruling from the IRS or an unqualified opinion that such action will not cause the spin-off or the internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. In addition, Purpose Financial would be subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. Moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally would provide that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the spin-off or certain internal transactions to qualify as a tax 32 Table of Contents favored transaction under the Code if such failure is attributable to certain post-spin actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the spin-off, the other party’s consent to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion as described above. For example, we would be responsible for the acquisition of us by a third party at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. These restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our shareholders. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell your shares of our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the overall financing environment, which is critical to our value; • the operating and stock performance of our competitors and other sub-prime lenders; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in interest rates; • the announcement of enforcement actions or investigations against us or our competitors or other negative publicity relating to us or our industry; • changes in GAAP, laws, regulations or the interpretations thereof that affect our various business activities and segments; • general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • future sales of our common stock and the share lending agreement. In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Future sales of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, including sales of our common stock pursuant to share lending agreements or short sales transactions by purchasers of convertible notes securities, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, including sales pursuant to share lending agreements, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. Future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, including sales of our common stock in short sales transactions by purchasers of our convertible notes, may have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our business is going through a substantial period of transition and we are exploring various options. Because of the unavailability of growth financing for our traditional business, we are exploring various options designed to produce the greatest benefit possible for our shareholders. Currently these options include the payment of cash dividends, share repurchases and, pending the completion of the sale of our MEM operations that we classify as held for sale and accordingly as discontinued operations, the spin-off of our micro-loan businesses, and we may consider additional options in the future. On December 31, 2009, we paid a $.50 per share dividend to our shareholders, and a tender offer that we completed on May 14, 2010 resulted in our repurchase of 12,180,604 shares of our common stock for $85.3 million, in addition to our repurchase of $24.8 million in face amount of our 3.625% convertible senior notes due 2025 for $14.7 million. We are considering future cash dividends and stock repurchases as well. In connection with management’s review of the proposal to 33 Table of Contents spin-off our micro-loan businesses, our subsidiary Purpose Financial filed a Form 10 Registration Statement and a related Information Statement with the SEC. To date, our management has not recommended, and our Board of Directors has not approved, any further dividends or the spin-off of Purpose Financial, and it is premature to suggest whether they will, particularly pending the completion of the sale of our MEM operations in the case of the spin-off. We have the ability to issue preferred shares, warrants, convertible debt and other securities without shareholder approval. Our common shares may be subordinate to classes of preferred shares issued in the future in the payment of dividends and other distributions made with respect to common shares, including distributions upon liquidation or dissolution. Our articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares without first obtaining shareholder approval. If we issued preferred shares, these additional securities may have dividend or liquidation preferences senior to the common shares. If we issue convertible preferred shares, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common shareholders’ interest. We have similar abilities to issue convertible debt, warrants and other equity securities. Our executive officers, directors and parties related to them, in the aggregate, control a majority of our voting stock and may have the ability to control matters requiring shareholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and parties related to them own a large enough stake in us to have an influence on, if not control of, the matters presented to shareholders. As a result, these shareholders may have the ability to control matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as any reclassification, reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the control of our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of us, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Note Regarding Risk Factors The risk factors presented above are all of the ones that we currently consider material. However, they are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, may also adversely affect us. There may be risks that a particular investor views differently from us, and our analysis might be wrong. If any of the risks that we face actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and could differ materially from any possible results suggested by any forward-looking statements that we have made or might make. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 