Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Management and Relationship with Our Manager and Its Affiliates We are dependent upon PCM, PLS and their resources and may not find suitable replacements if our management agreement with PCM is terminated and/or our loan servicing agreement with PLS is terminated. In accordance with our management agreement, we are externally advised and managed by PCM. We have no employees, and all of our officers are also employees of PCM or its affiliates. Among other matters, PCM supplies us with our senior management team, makes all or substantially all of our investment, financing and risk management decisions, and has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. As a result, we are completely reliant upon, and our success depends exclusively on, PCM's investment decisions, the advice of PCM's employees, the use of PCM's vendors and other resources, and the manner and extent to which PCM selects its vendors and allocates those resources to manage our business. No assurance can be given that PCM's strategies will be successful, that it will conduct complete and accurate due diligence or provide sound advice, or that it will act in our best interests with respect to the allocation of its resources to our business. Its failure to do any of the above, conduct the business in accordance with applicable laws and regulations or hold all licenses or registrations necessary to conduct the business as currently operated would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue to execute our business plan. In addition, the initial term of our management agreement only extends until August 4, 2012 (subject to annual automatic renewals for one-year terms), and it may be terminated earlier under certain circumstances. If our management agreement is terminated and a suitable replacement is not secured in a timely manner, it would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue to execute our business plan. Under our loan servicing agreement with PLS, PLS provides primary servicing and special servicing for our portfolio of residential mortgage loans. We rely on PLS to provide these services for our portfolio and have no in-house capability to handle these services independently of PLS. The costs of these services increase our operating costs and may adversely affect our net income. No assurance can be given that PLS's strategies will be successful, that PLS will provide sound advice, or that it will act 16 Table of Contents in our best interests with respect to the allocation of its resources to our business. Its failure to do any of the above, conduct its business in accordance with applicable laws and regulations or hold all licenses or registrations necessary to conduct the business as currently operated would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue to execute our business plan. The term of our loan servicing agreement is identical to the term of our management agreement, and is subject to early termination in the event our management agreement is terminated for any reason. If our loan servicing agreement is terminated, we will have to obtain the loan servicing from another servicer. We may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all. PennyMac, the parent company of PCM and PLS, is undergoing significant growth and its development and integration of new operations may not be effective. PennyMac's significant growth since it commenced operations has caused significant demands on its operational, accounting and legal infrastructure, and increased expenses. The ability of PCM and PLS to provide us with the services we require to be successful depends, among other things, on the ability of PennyMac, including PCM and PLS, to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address its growth. This may require PennyMac to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources. There can be no assurance that PennyMac will be able to effectively integrate its expanding operations or that PennyMac will continue to grow successfully. PennyMac's failure to do so could adversely affect the ability of PCM and PLS to manage us and service our mortgage loan portfolio, respectively, which would materially and adversely affect us. Our management agreement and our loan servicing agreement were not negotiated on an arm's length basis. Our management agreement and our loan servicing agreement were each negotiated between related parties, and we did not have the benefit of arm's length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party and the terms, including the fees payable to PCM and PLS, as the case may be, may not be as favorable to us as they would be if those agreements were negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. We may also choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, certain of our rights under our management agreement or our loan servicing agreement in an effort to maintain our ongoing relationship with PCM or PLS, as the case may be. The management fee structure could cause disincentive and/or create greater investment risk. Pursuant to our management agreement, PCM is entitled to receive a base management fee that is based on our shareholders' equity (as defined in our management agreement) at the end of each quarter. As a result, significant base management fees would be payable to PCM for a given quarter even if we experience a net loss during that quarter. PCM's right to non-performance-based compensation may not provide sufficient incentive to PCM to devote its time and effort to source and maximize risk-adjusted returns on our investment portfolio, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the market price of our common shares. Conversely, PCM is also entitled to receive incentive compensation under our management agreement based on our performance in each quarter. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on our core earnings (as defined in our management agreement) may lead PCM to place undue emphasis on the maximization of short-term cash-based income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity and/or management of market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier and more speculative. PCM may also have a conflict of interest in deciding upon whether to sell any investment at a gain, thereby recognizing additional incentive compensation, or to hold such investment based on its long-term value. This could result in increased risk to the value and long-term performance of our portfolio. 17 Table of Contents The servicing fee structure could create a conflict of interest. For its services under our loan servicing agreement, PLS is entitled to base servicing fees that we believe are competitive with those charged by specialty servicers and are calculated as a percentage of the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans in our portfolio. Because the base servicing fees are calculated on this basis, PLS's interests may not be aligned with ours with regard to loan modifications that would reduce the unpaid principal balances of our mortgage loans. PLS is also entitled to certain customary market-based fees and charges, including boarding and deboarding fees, liquidation and disposition fees, assumption, modification and origination fees and late charges, as well as interest on funds on deposit in custodial or escrow accounts. In addition, to the extent we participate in HAMP (or other similar mortgage loan modification programs), PLS will be entitled to retain any incentive payments made to it in connection with our participation therein. Because certain of these fees are earned upon reaching a specific milestone, this fee structure may provide PLS with an incentive to foreclose more aggressively or liquidate assets for less than their fair market value. On our behalf, PLS also refinances performing and nonperforming loans and originates new loans to facilitate the disposition of real estate that we acquire through foreclosure. In order to provide PLS with an incentive to produce such loans, we have agreed to pay PLS fees and other compensation based on market-based pricing and terms that are consistent with the pricing and terms offered by PLS to unaffiliated third parties on a retail basis. The amount of the origination fee is intended to reflect market rates and will be subject to review by our board of trustees from time to time. This may provide PLS with an incentive to refinance a greater proportion of our loans than it otherwise would and/or to refinance loans on our behalf instead of arranging the refinancings with a third party lender. Termination of our management agreement is difficult and costly. It is difficult and costly to terminate, without cause, our management agreement. Following the initial term ending August 4, 2012, our management agreement provides that it may be terminated annually by us without cause under limited circumstances and upon 180 days' prior written notice and the payment to PCM of a significant termination fee. The cost to us of terminating our management agreement may adversely affect our desire or ability to terminate our management agreement with PCM without cause. PCM may terminate our management agreement if we become required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, or decline to renew our management agreement by providing us with 180 days' prior written notice, in which case we would not be required to pay a termination fee to PCM. PCM may also terminate our management agreement upon at least 60 days' prior written notice if we default in the performance of any material term of our management agreement and the default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice to us, whereupon we would be required to pay to PCM a significant termination fee. If our management agreement is terminated, we will have to obtain investment and other management services from another investment manager. We may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all. PCM and PLS both have limited liability and indemnity rights. Our management agreement and our loan servicing agreement provide that PCM (in the case of our management agreement) and PLS (in the case of our loan servicing agreement) will not assume any responsibility other than to provide the services specified in such agreements. Our management agreement further provides that PCM will not be responsible for any action of our board of trustees in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. In addition, each of PCM (in the case of our management agreement) and PLS (in the case of our loan servicing agreement) and their respective affiliates, managers, officers, trustees, directors, employees and members will be held harmless from, and indemnified by us against, certain liabilities on customary terms. 18 Table of Contents Existing or future entities or accounts managed by PCM may compete with us for PCM's time and services, and they may compete with us for, or may participate in, investments, any of which could result in conflicts of interest. BlackRock and Highfields Capital, PennyMac's strategic investors, could compete with us or transact business with us. Pursuant to our management agreement, PCM is obligated to supply us with our senior management team, and the members of that team are required to devote such time to us as is necessary and appropriate, commensurate with the level of our activity. The members of our senior management team may have conflicts in allocating their time and services between us and other entities or accounts managed by PCM now or in the future, including the PennyMac funds. Although we and PCM have adopted an allocation policy to specifically address some of the conflicts relating to our investment opportunities, there is no assurance that this policy will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise or will address such conflicts in a manner that is favorable to us. We are also limited in our ability to acquire assets that are not qualifying real estate assets and/or real estate related assets, whereas the PennyMac funds and other entities or accounts that PCM manages now or may manage in the future are not, or may not be, as applicable, so limited. In addition, PCM and/or the PennyMac funds and the other entities or accounts managed by PCM now or in the future may participate in some of our investments, which may not be the result of arm's length negotiations and may involve or later result in potential conflicts between our interests in the investments and those of PCM or such other entities. As of December 31, 2011, the commitment periods for the PennyMac funds have ended and the ability of the PennyMac funds to make new investments has therefore been reduced. In addition, PNMAC's strategic investors, BlackRock and Highfields Capital, each own 34% of PNMAC. Affiliates of each of BlackRock and Highfields Capital currently manage investment vehicles and separate accounts that may compete directly or indirectly with us. BlackRock and Highfields Capital are under no obligation to provide us with any financial or operational assistance, or to present opportunities to us for matters in which they may become involved. We may enter into transactions with BlackRock or Highfields Capital or with market participants with which BlackRock or Highfields Capital has business relationships, and such transactions and/or relationships could influence the decisions made by PCM with respect to the purchase or sale of assets and the terms of such purchase or sale. Such activities could have an adverse effect on the value of the positions held by us, or may result in BlackRock and/or Highfields Capital having interests adverse to ours. If ownership interests held by PennyMac's strategic investors were transferred to a third party, this could result in a change in our objectives and cause us material harm. If either or both of BlackRock and Highfields Capital were to sell their ownership interests in PNMAC to a third party, that party might, subject to certain limitations, attempt to cause us to materially amend our investment policies, attempt to cause a sale or disposition of PCM and/or PLS or a change in the composition of PCM's professionals. A change in ownership could also cause a termination of our management agreement with PCM. If any of the foregoing were to occur, we could experience difficulty in making new investments and the value of our existing investments, our business, our results of operations and our financial condition could suffer materially. Additionally, we cannot predict the effect that any transfer in the ownership of PNMAC would have on the trading price of our common shares or our ability to raise capital or make investments in the future because such matters would depend to a large extent on the identity of the new owner and the new owner's intentions with regard to our business and affairs. As a result, the future of our company would be uncertain and the value of our investments, our results of operations and our financial condition could suffer. 19 Table of Contents Negative publicity and media attention involving Countrywide Financial Corporation and certain of its former officers could have an adverse impact on PennyMac and us. Certain of our and PennyMac's officers, including Stanford L. Kurland, our chairman and chief executive officer, are former employees of Countrywide Financial Corporation ("Countrywide"), which has been the subject of various investigations and lawsuits and ongoing negative publicity. We cannot assure you that any existing or future investigations, litigation or negative publicity involving Countrywide will not generate negative publicity or media attention for us or adversely impact us or PCM's and PLS's ability to conduct their respective businesses. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient operating cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. The supply of distressed residential mortgage loans will likely recede as the economy improves. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient returns to pay our operating expenses and make distributions to our shareholders. The results of our operations and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders depends on many factors, including the availability of attractive risk-adjusted investment opportunities that satisfy our investment strategies and our success in identifying and consummating them on favorable terms, the level and expected movement of home prices, the level and volatility of interest rates, readily accessible short-term and long-term financing on favorable terms, and conditions in the financial markets, real estate market and the economy, as to which no assurance can be given. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make investments with attractive risk-adjusted returns or will not seek investments with greater risk to obtain the same level of returns or that the value of our investments in the future will not decline substantially. We also face substantial competition in acquiring attractive investments. In addition, when the current conditions in the mortgage market, the financial markets and the economy stabilize and/or improve, the availability of distressed residential mortgage loans that meet our investment objectives and strategies will likely recede, which could reduce our ability to invest in distressed mortgage assets. In anticipation of this decline in the supply of potential investments, we are investing capital in our correspondent lending activities and continue to reevaluate our investment strategies with a view of maximizing the returns from our investment portfolio and identifying dislocations and opportunities in the mortgage market, but there can be no assurance that any of our strategies will be successful. As a result of difficult conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally, the risks to our business strategies are high and there are no assurances that we will be successful in implementing those business strategies. The success of our business strategies and our results of operations are materially affected by current conditions in the mortgage market, the financial markets and the economy generally. Continuing concerns over factors including inflation, deflation, unemployment, personal and business income taxes, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and unclear expectations for the economy and markets going forward. The residential mortgage market has been severely affected by changes in the lending landscape and has experienced defaults, credit losses and significant liquidity concerns. There is no assurance that these conditions have stabilized or that they will not worsen. A continuation or increase in the volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and RMBS markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our investments. Although we intend to purchase distressed mortgage loans at discounts to their unpaid principal balances, further 20 Table of Contents deterioration in home prices or the value of our investments could require us to take charges that may be material. The actions of the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury may materially and adversely affect our business. The U.S. government, the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken and continue to take various actions to address the recent financial crisis. There can be no assurances that such actions will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets. In addition to the foregoing, the U.S. Congress and/or various states and local legislatures may enact additional legislation or regulatory action designed to address the current economic climate or for other purposes that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to execute our business strategies. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to these initiatives or they do not function as intended, they may not have a positive impact on our business. We can provide no assurance that we will be eligible to use any government programs or, if eligible, that we will be able to utilize them successfully. Further, the incentives provided by such programs may increase competition for, and the pricing of, our targeted assets. Mortgage loan modification and refinance programs, future legislative action, and other actions and changes may materially and adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the assets in which we intend to invest. The U.S. government, through the FHA, the FDIC and the U.S. Treasury, has commenced or proposed implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. These loan modification and refinance programs, future U.S. federal, state and/or local legislative or regulatory actions that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, residential mortgage loans, RMBS, real estate-related securities and various other asset classes in which we invest. In addition to the foregoing, the U.S. Congress and/or various states and local legislators may enact additional legislation or regulatory action designed to address the current economic climate or for other purposes that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to execute our business strategies. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, may materially and adversely affect our business. There is significant uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including with respect to how long they will continue to be in existence, the extent of their roles in the market and what forms they will have. Although the U.S. Treasury has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since they were placed into conservatorship, there can be no assurance that such funding will be provided within the required time periods or that the actions of the U.S. Treasury will be adequate for their needs. If such funding is not provided as required, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA") would be obligated to place Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac into receivership. Further, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could be placed into receivership at the discretion of the FHFA at any time under certain circumstances. If the actions of the U.S. Treasury are inadequate and/or pending repurchase requests by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to lenders prove unsuccessful, or if Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are adversely affected by events such as ratings downgrades, foreclosure problems and delays and problems with mortgage insurers, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. In addition, the future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac remain uncertain. Their roles could be significantly reduced or eliminated and the nature of the guarantees could be considerably limited relative to 21 Table of Contents historical measurements. The elimination of the traditional roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or any changes to the nature or extent of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes a U.S. government Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse market implications. Such market implications are uncertain but could materially and adversely affect our business and the performance, liquidity and market value of our investments. We leverage our investments, which may materially and adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We currently leverage and, to the extent available, we intend to continue to leverage our investments through borrowings, the level of which may vary based on the particular characteristics of our investment portfolio and on market conditions. We have leveraged certain of our investments through repurchase agreements. When we enter into repurchase agreements, we sell securities or mortgage loans to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same assets back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the assets to the lender is less than the value of those assets (this difference is referred to as the haircut), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same assets back to us we could incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the assets). In addition, repurchase agreements generally allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If such counterparties determine that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing. Should this occur, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses. In the event we are unable to satisfy a margin call, our counterparty may sell the collateral, which may result in significant losses to us. The lenders under our repurchase agreements require us and/or our subsidiaries to comply with various financial covenants, including those relating to tangible net worth, profitability and our ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth. Certain of our lenders also require us to maintain minimum amounts of cash or cash equivalents sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position. In the event that we are unable to maintain these liquidity levels, we could be forced to sell additional investments at a loss and our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Our repurchase agreements to finance nonperforming loans and other distressed mortgage assets are complex and difficult to manage. This is due in part to the nature of the underlying assets securing the financing, which do not produce consistent cash flows and which require specific activities to be performed at specific points in time in order to preserve value. Our inability to comply with the terms and conditions of these facilities could materially and adversely impact us. In addition, the repurchase agreements contain events of default (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods), including payment defaults, breaches of financial and other covenants and/or certain representations and warranties, cross-defaults, servicer termination events, guarantor defaults, bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings and other events of default customary for these types of facilities. The remedies for such events of default are also customary for these types of facilities and include the acceleration of the principal amount outstanding and the liquidation by the lender of the assets then subject to the respective facilities. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the lender may be able to terminate the transaction, accelerate any amounts outstanding and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. Because our repurchase agreements typically contain cross-default provisions, a default that occurs under any one agreement could allow the lenders under our other agreements to also declare a default. Our other secured borrowings are subject to similar risks as those that apply to our repurchase agreements. Any losses we 22 Table of Contents incur on our repurchase agreements and other secured borrowings could materially and adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We may in the future utilize other sources of borrowings, including bank credit facilities and structured financing arrangements, among others. The percentage of leverage we employ varies depending on the asset class being financed, our available capital, our ability to obtain and access financing arrangements with lenders and the lenders' and rating agencies' estimate of the stability of our investment portfolio's cash flow. There can be no assurance that new sources of financing will be available to us in the future or that existing sources of financing will continue to be available to us. We also own REO, for which there is currently limited financing available and no assurance of available financing in the future. Our governing documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that new sources of financing will be available to us in the future or that existing sources of financing will continue to be available to us. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our shareholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the investments acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distribution to shareholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations. As non-recourse long-term financing structures become available to us and are utilized, such structures expose us to risks which could result in losses to us. We may use securitization and other non-recourse long-term financing for our investments to the extent available. In such structures, our lenders typically would have only a claim against the assets included in the securitizations rather than a general claim against us as an entity. Prior to any such financing, we would seek to finance our investments with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated. As a result, we would be subject to the risk that we would not be able to acquire, during the period that any short-term facilities are available, sufficient eligible assets or securities to maximize the efficiency of a securitization. We also bear the risk that we would not be able to obtain new short-term facilities or would not be able to renew any short-term facilities after they expire should we need more time to seek and acquire sufficient eligible assets or securities for a securitization. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of any such securitization less attractive to us even when we do have sufficient eligible assets or securities. While we would intend to retain the unrated equity component of securitizations and, therefore, still have exposure to any investments included in such securitizations, our inability to enter into such securitizations may increase our overall exposure to risks associated with direct ownership of such investments, including the risk of default. Our inability to refinance any short-term facilities would also increase our risk because borrowings thereunder would likely be recourse to us as an entity. If we are unable to obtain and renew short-term facilities or to consummate securitizations to finance our investments on a long-term basis, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price. Future issuances of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common shares, and future issuances of equity securities, which would dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common shares, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In order to grow our business, we may rely on additional equity issuances, which may rank senior and/or be dilutive to our shareholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that rank senior to our shareholders and require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our shareholders and other purposes. 23 Table of Contents Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and other loans and preferred shares would receive a distribution of our available assets before holders of our common shares. Subject to applicable law, our board of trustees has the authority, without further shareholder approval, to issue additional common shares and to issue preferred shares on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. We have issued, and intend to issue, additional common shares and securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, common shares under our equity incentive plan. We have also filed a shelf registration statement, from which we have issued and may in the future issue additional common shares, including, without limitation through our "at-the-market" equity program. We also may issue from time to time additional common shares in connection with property, portfolio or business acquisitions and may grant demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with such issuances. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict the effect, if any, of future issuances of our common shares, preferred shares or other equity-based securities or the prospect of such issuances on the market price of our common shares. Issuances of a substantial amount of such securities, or the perception that such issuances might occur, could depress the market price of our common shares. Our preferred shares, if issued, would likely have a preference on distribution payments, including liquidating distributions, which could limit our ability to make distributions, including liquidating distributions, to holders of our common shares. We cannot assure you that we will have access to any equity or debt capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or other borrowings will reduce the market price of our common shares and dilute their ownership in us. Interest rate fluctuations could significantly decrease our results of operations and cash flows and the market value of our investments. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations present a variety of risks to our operations. Our primary interest rate exposures relate to the yield on our investments, their market value and the financing cost of our debt, as well as any interest rate swaps that we utilize for hedging purposes. Changes in interest rates affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest- earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding interest income may result in operating losses for us. Changes in the level of interest rates also may affect our ability to make investments, the value of our investments (including our pipeline of mortgage loan commitments) and any related hedging instruments, and our ability to realize gains from the disposition of assets. Changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates and may impact our ability to refinance or modify loans and/or to sell REO. In addition, in the event we acquire MSRs, decreasing interest rates may cause a large number of borrowers whose loans are being serviced by PLS to refinance, which may result in the loss of any such mortgage servicing business and associated write-downs of such MSRs. Any such scenario could materially and adversely affect us. Hedging against interest rate exposure may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We pursue hedging strategies to reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level of interest rates, the type of investments held, and other changing market conditions. However, while we enter into such transactions seeking to reduce interest 24 Table of Contents rate risk, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things, it may not fully eliminate interest rate risk, it could expose us to counterparty and default risk that may result in greater losses or the loss of unrealized profits, and it will create additional expense, while any income it generates to offset losses may be limited by federal tax provisions applicable to REITs. Thus hedging activity, while intended to limit losses, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We utilize derivative instruments, which could subject us to risk of loss. We utilize derivative instruments for hedging purposes, which may include swaps, options and futures. However, the prices of derivative instruments, including futures and options, are highly volatile, as are payments made pursuant to swap agreements. As a result, the cost of utilizing derivatives may reduce our income that would otherwise be available for distribution to shareholders or for other purposes, and the derivative instruments that we utilize may fail to effectively hedge our positions. We are also subject to credit risk with regard to the counterparties involved in the derivative transactions. Competition may limit the availability of desirable investments and result in reduced risk-adjusted returns. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to continue to acquire our targeted investments at favorable prices. As described in greater detail elsewhere in this Report, we compete with other mortgage REITs, specialty finance companies, private funds, thrifts, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, depository institutions, governmental bodies and other entities, many of which focus on acquiring distressed mortgage loans. Many of our competitors also have competitive advantages over us, including size, financial strength and risk tolerance. Competition may result in fewer investments, higher prices, acceptance of greater risk, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our financing costs. Our board of trustees has approved very broad investment policies for PCM and will not review or approve each investment decision. We may change our investment strategies and policies without shareholder consent, which may materially and adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. PCM is authorized to follow very broad investment policies and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the types of assets that are proper investments for us, as well as the individual investment decisions. In the future, PCM may make investments with lower rates of return than those anticipated under current market conditions and/or may make investments with greater risks to achieve those anticipated returns. Our board of trustees will periodically review our investment policies and our investment portfolio but will not review or approve each proposed investment by PCM unless it falls outside our investment policies or constitutes a related party transaction. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of trustees will rely primarily on information provided to it by PCM. Furthermore, PCM may use complex strategies, and transactions entered into by PCM may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of trustees. In addition, we may change our investment strategies and policies and targeted asset classes at any time without the consent of our shareholders, and this could result in our making investments that are different in type from, and possibly riskier than our current investments or the investments currently contemplated. Changes in our investment strategies and policies and targeted asset classes may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, counterparty risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, which could materially and adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 25 Table of Contents Our implementation of a correspondent lending operation could subject us to increased risk of loss. PCM has developed a correspondent lending operation whereby we acquire newly originated loans, including jumbo loans, from mortgage lenders and sell or securitize those loans to or through the Agencies or other third party investors. We also sell the resulting securities into the MBS markets. However, there can be no assurance that PCM will be successful in operating this business or that we will be able to capitalize on these opportunities on favorable terms or at all. In particular, we have committed, and expect to continue to commit, capital and other resources to this operation; however, PCM may not be able to continue to source sufficient investment opportunities to justify the expenditure of such capital and other resources. In the event that PCM is unable to continue to source sufficient investment opportunities for this operation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to acquire such investments on favorable terms or at all, or that such investments, if acquired, would be profitable to us. In addition, we may be unable to finance the acquisition of these investments and/or may be unable to sell the resulting MBS in the securitization market on favorable terms or at all. We are also subject to the risk that the value of the acquired loans may decrease prior to their disposition. The occurrence of any one or more of these risks could adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our entry into the warehouse lending business could subject us to increased risk of loss. We intend to enter into the warehouse lending business through one or more of our subsidiaries. In connection with such activity, we will generally finance a mortgage loan originated by a correspondent lender under a master repurchase agreement, pursuant to which we will purchase the loan at a discount to its unpaid principal balance. Upon its sale of the loan to us or a third party, the correspondent lender would then repurchase the loan from us in an amount equal to our purchase price plus accrued interest through the date of repurchase. The ability of the correspondent lender to repurchase a loan from us may be contingent on its ability to sell such loan in an amount sufficient to pay us the full repurchase price. There can be no assurance that the correspondent lender will be able to sell the loan for an amount sufficient to repay our borrowings, or at all. As a result, we are subject to the credit risk of our correspondent lenders. If the correspondent lender is unable to sell the loan and unable to repay our borrowings, there can be no assurance that any value we are able to realize through a sale or liquidation of the underlying loan will be sufficient to avoid a loss of all or a portion of the amount of the borrowing. Such losses could harm our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditors annually attest to our evaluation, as well as issue their own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. While we have undertaken substantial work to comply with Section 404, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate control over our financial reporting and financial processes. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market value of our common shares. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to 26 Table of Contents remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency and management may not be able to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency in a timely manner, or at all. We and/or PLS are required to have various Agency approvals and state licenses in order to conduct our business and there is no assurance we and/or PLS will be able to obtain or maintain those Agency approvals or state licenses. We and PLS are required to be licensed to conduct business in certain jurisdictions. PLS is licensed, or is taking steps to become licensed, in those jurisdictions, and for those activities, where it believes it is cost effective and appropriate to become licensed. Through our wholly owned subsidiaries, we are licensed or are taking steps to become licensed, in those jurisdictions, and for those activities, where we believe it is cost effective and appropriate to become licensed. Our failure or the failure by PLS to obtain any necessary licenses, comply with applicable licensing laws or satisfy the various requirements to maintain them over time could restrict our direct business activities, result in civil and other monetary penalties, or cause us to default under certain of our lending arrangements, any of which could materially and adversely impact our business. We and PLS are also required to hold Agency approvals in order to sell mortgage loans to the Agencies and service such mortgage loans on their behalf. Our failure, or the failure of PLS, to satisfy the various requirements necessary to maintain such Agency approvals over time would also restrict our direct business activities and could adversely impact our business. We may be subject to liability for potential violations of various lending laws, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. Residential mortgage loan originators and servicers are required to comply with various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including anti-predatory lending laws and laws and regulations imposing certain restrictions and requirements on "high cost" loans. To the extent these originators or servicers fail to comply with applicable law and any of their residential mortgage loans become part of our assets, it could subject us, as an assignee or purchaser of the related residential mortgage loans, to monetary penalties or other losses and could result in the borrowers rescinding the affected residential mortgage loans. Further, if any of our loans are found to have been originated, serviced or owned by us or a third party in violation of applicable law, we could be fined or incur losses, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure has and will continue to result in increased compliance costs and pose challenges for our management team. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules, regulations and agencies promulgated thereunder, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the compliance requirements, costs and risks associated with accessing the U.S. public markets. Our management team has and will continue to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which has and will continue to lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us and, more generally, the financial services and mortgage industries. Additionally, we cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect us, whether or when such changes may be adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced or how such changes may affect us. 27 Table of Contents However, the costs of complying with any additional laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of PCM and PLS. Any failure or interruption of these systems could cause delays or other problems in our trading, investment and financing activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and on the market price of our common shares and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may materially and adversely affect the real estate industry generally and our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted the U.S. financial markets, including the real estate capital markets, and negatively impacted the U.S. economy in general. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, the consequences of any military or other response by the U.S. and its allies, and other armed conflicts could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. The economic impact of these events could also materially and adversely affect the collectability of some of our loans and the credit quality of our loans and investments and the properties underlying our interests. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future attacks and these losses may adversely impact our performance and may cause the market value of our common shares to decline or be more volatile. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that potential future armed conflicts and terrorist attacks would have on us. Losses resulting from these types of events may not be fully insurable. Risks Related to Our Investments The mortgage loans in which we invest and the mortgage loans underlying the MBS in which we invest subject us to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, as well as the risks associated with residential real estate and residential real estate-related investments, any of which could result in losses to us. We invest in performing and nonperforming residential mortgage loans, and newly originated prime credit quality residential mortgage loans through our correspondent lending business. Residential mortgage loans are typically secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure and risks of loss. These risks are greater for nonperforming loans. In addition, we invest in RMBS that are not guaranteed by federally chartered entities such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or, in the case of Ginnie Mae, the U.S. government. The ability of borrowers to repay residential mortgage loans that we own, or underlying RMBS that we own, is dependent upon the income or assets of these borrowers. We are authorized to invest in CMBS and may also invest in commercial mortgage loans. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. Net operating income of an income producing property can be affected by a variety of factors, and if the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. 28 Table of Contents In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the price we paid for the loan and any accrued interest of the mortgage loan plus advances made, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Our investment in mortgage loans and MBS also subjects us to the risks of residential real estate and residential real estate-related investments, including, among others: (i) continued declines in the value of residential real estate; (ii) risks related to general and local economic conditions; (iii) possible lack of availability of mortgage funds for borrowers to refinance or sell their homes; (iv) overbuilding; (v) the general deterioration of the borrower's ability to keep a rehabilitated nonperforming mortgage loan current; (vi) increases in property taxes and operating expenses; (vii) changes in zoning laws; (viii) costs resulting from the clean-up of, and liability to third parties for damages resulting from, environmental problems, such as indoor mold; (ix) casualty or condemnation losses; (x) uninsured damages from floods, earthquakes or other natural disasters; (xi) limitations on and variations in rents; (xii) fluctuations in interest rates; (xiii) fraud by borrowers, originators and/or sellers of mortgage loans; (xiv) undetected deficiencies and/or inaccuracies in underlying mortgage loan documentation and calculations; and (xv) failure of the borrower to adequately maintain the property, particularly during times of financial difficulty. To the extent that assets underlying our investments are concentrated geographically, by property type or in certain other respects, we may be subject to certain of the foregoing risks to a greater extent. Additionally, we may be required to foreclose on a mortgage loan and such actions would subject us to greater concentration of the risks of the residential real estate markets and risks related to the ownership and management of real property. A significant portion of the residential mortgage loans that we acquire are or may become nonperforming loans, which increases our risk of loss of our investment. We acquire distressed residential mortgage loans and mortgage-related assets where the borrower has failed to make timely payments of principal and/or interest. We also acquire performing loans that subsequently become nonperforming. Under current market conditions, it is likely that many of these loans will have current loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100%, meaning the amount owed on the loan exceeds the value of the underlying real estate. Further, the borrowers on such loans may be in economic distress and/or may have become unemployed, bankrupt or otherwise unable or unwilling to make payments when due. If PLS as our primary and special servicer is not able to address the issues concerning these loans, we may incur significant losses. There are no limits on the percentage of nonperforming assets we may hold. Any loss we incur may be significant and may reduce distributions to our shareholders and materially and adversely affect the market value of our common shares. We invest in subprime residential mortgage loans or RMBS collateralized by subprime mortgage loans, which are subject to increased risks. We invest in subprime residential mortgage loans or RMBS backed by collateral pools of subprime residential mortgage loans, which are mortgage loans originated using underwriting standards that are less restrictive than the underwriting standards for other first and junior lien mortgage loan purchase programs, such as the programs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Because of the higher delinquency rates and losses associated with subprime mortgage loans, the performance of subprime mortgage loans or RMBS backed by subprime mortgage loans in which we invest could be correspondingly adversely affected, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents A significant portion of our investments is and will continue to be in the form of whole loan mortgages, which are subject to increased risks. A significant portion of our investments is and will continue to be in the form of whole loan mortgages, which are directly exposed to losses resulting from default and foreclosure. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. The liquidation proceeds upon sale of such real estate may not be sufficient to recover our investment in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. In addition, the foreclosure process may be lengthy and expensive, and any delays or costs involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property may further reduce the proceeds and thus increase the loss. Our acquisition of mortgage servicing rights exposes us to significant risks. MSRs arise from contractual agreements between us and the investors (or their agents) in mortgage securities and mortgage loans. We may acquire MSRs from the sale of mortgage loans where we assume the obligation to service the loan in connection with the sale transaction or we may purchase MSRs. Any MSRs we acquire are recorded at fair value on our balance sheet based upon significant estimates and assumptions. The determination of the fair value of MSRs requires our management to make numerous estimates and assumptions. Such estimates and assumptions include, without limitation, estimates of future cash flows associated with MSRs based upon assumptions involving interest rates as well as the prepayment rates, delinquencies and foreclosure rates of the underlying serviced mortgage loans. The ultimate realization of the value of MSRs may be materially different than the fair values of such MSRs as may be reflected in our consolidated balance sheet as of any particular date. The use of different estimates or assumptions in connection with the valuation of these assets could produce materially different fair values for such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, there may be material uncertainty about the fair value of any MSRs we acquire. Changes in interest rates are a key driver of the performance of MSRs since the values of MSRs are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. Historically, the value of MSRs has increased when interest rates rise and decreased when interest rates decline due to the effect those changes in interest rates have on prepayment estimates. We may pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us. To the extent we do not utilize derivatives to hedge against changes in fair value of MSRs, our balance sheet, financial condition and results of operations would be susceptible to volatility due to changes in the fair value of, or cash flows from, MSRs as interest rates change. Prepayment speeds significantly affect MSRs. Prepayment speed is the measurement of how quickly borrowers pay down the unpaid principal balance of their loans or how quickly loans are otherwise brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. We base the price we pay for MSRs and the rate of amortization of those assets on, among other things, our projection of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speeds are significantly greater than expected, the fair value of the MSRs could decline and we may be required to record a non-cash charge, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. Furthermore, a significant increase in prepayment speeds could materially reduce the ultimate cash flows we receive from MSRs, and we could ultimately receive substantially less than what we paid for such assets. Moreover, delinquency rates have a significant impact on the valuation of any MSRs. An increase in delinquencies generally results in lower revenue because typically we only collect servicing fees from GSEs or mortgage owners for performing loans. We base the price we pay for MSRs on, among other 30 Table of Contents things, our projections of the cash flows from related pools of mortgage loans. Our expectation of delinquencies is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If delinquencies are significantly greater than we expect, the estimated fair value of the MSRs could be diminished. When the estimated fair value of MSRs is reduced, we could suffer a loss, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Furthermore, MSRs and the related servicing activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations and may be subject to various judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions on our business. Our failure to comply, or the failure of the servicer to comply, with the laws, rules or regulations to which we or they are subjected due by virtue of ownership of MSRs, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RMBS and CMBS investments are subject to significant risks. We invest in RMBS and may invest in CMBS. RMBS evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, RMBS and CMBS are subject to all of the risks of the respective underlying mortgage loans. In addition, the market value of mortgage securities will generally vary inversely with changes in market interest rates, declining when interest rates rise and rising when interest rates decline. However, mortgage securities, while having comparable risk of decline during periods of rising rates, usually have less potential for capital appreciation than other investments of comparable maturities due to the likelihood of increased prepayments of mortgages as interest rates decline. Investments in subordinated loans and subordinated MBS could subject us to increased risk of losses. We invest in subordinated loans and may invest in subordinated MBS. In the event a borrower defaults on a subordinated loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy such loan, we may lose all or a significant part of our investment. In the event a borrower becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, we will not have any recourse to the assets, if any, of the borrower that are not pledged to secure our loan, and the unpledged assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy our loan. If a borrower defaults on our subordinated loan or on its senior debt (i.e., a first-lien loan, in the case of a residential mortgage loan, or a contractually or structurally senior loan, in the case of a commercial mortgage loan), or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our subordinated loan will be satisfied only after all senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover all or even a significant part of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, in the case of commercial mortgage loans where senior debt exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loan, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit provided by the borrower, if any, and then by the "first loss" subordinated security holder and then by the "second loss" subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we may not recover all or even a significant part of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been serviced ineffectively by the loan servicer or overvalued by the originator, or if the values of the assets subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related MBS, the securities in which we invest may suffer significant losses. 31 Table of Contents The prices of these types of lower credit quality investments are generally more sensitive to adverse actual or perceived economic downturns or individual issuer developments than more highly rated investments. An economic downturn or a projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality investments because the ability of obligors to make principal and interest payments or to refinance may be impaired. Our investments in loans to and debt securities of real estate companies will be subject to the specific risks relating to the particular borrower or issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in real estate-related loans and securities, which could result in significant losses. We may invest in loans to and debt securities of real estate companies, including REITs. These investments involve special risks relating to the particular borrower or issuer of the securities, including the financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, business and prospects of the borrower or issuer. Investments in REIT debt securities may also be subject to risks relating to transfer restrictions, substantial market price volatility resulting from changes to prevailing interest rates, and, in the case of subordinated investments, the seniority of claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer. In addition, real estate companies often invest, and REITs generally are required to invest substantially, in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to some or all of the risks inherent with real estate and real estate-related investments referred to in this Report. These risks may adversely affect the value of our debt securities of real estate companies and the ability of the issuers thereof to make principal and interest payments in a timely manner, or at all, which could result in significant losses for us. Our acquisition of distressed condominium development loans will be subject to the general risks applicable to development projects, which may subject us to losses. We may seek opportunities to acquire mortgage assets that result from distressed condominium development projects, which may include real estate development loans, existing residential loans originated by the developer, and residential loans originated by PLS on our behalf. In addition to the risks inherent to the investment in mortgage loans, including distressed mortgage loans, as described throughout this Item 1A, our investment in mortgage assets that result from condominium development projects also subjects us to the general risks applicable to a development project. These risks include that the construction and leasing or sale of a property may not be completed on schedule or may cost more than anticipated due to, among other factors, events beyond the control of the developer (such as weather conditions, labor or material shortages or labor actions such as strikes). Development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required government permits and authorizations. It is also possible that construction or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Any of these risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or additional expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once commenced. Properties under development or properties acquired for development may receive little or no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of development or redevelopment and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion. In addition, market conditions may change during the course of development that make such development less attractive than at the time it was commenced. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the value of our development loans. The failure of PLS or any other servicer to effectively service our portfolio of mortgage loans would materially and adversely affect us. Pursuant to our loan servicing agreement, PLS provides us with primary and special servicing. PLS's responsibilities include providing delinquency notices when necessary, loan workouts and modifications, foreclosure proceedings, short sales, liquidations of REOs acquired as a result of 32 Table of Contents foreclosures of mortgage loans, and reporting on the performance of the loans. The ability of PLS or any other servicer or subservicer to effectively service our portfolio of mortgage loans is critical to our success, particularly given our strategy of maximizing the value of the mortgage loans that we acquire through proprietary loan modification programs, special servicing and other initiatives focused on keeping borrowers in their homes; or in the case of nonperforming loans, effecting property resolutions in a timely, orderly and economically efficient manner. The failure of PLS or any other servicer or subservicer to effectively service our portfolio of mortgage loans would adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The increasing number of proposed U.S. federal, state and local laws may affect certain mortgage-related assets in which we intend to invest and could increase our cost of doing business. Legislation has been proposed which, among other provisions, could hinder the ability of a servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans or would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the mortgage loan origination process, which could result in us being held responsible for such violations. We cannot predict whether or in what form the U.S. Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. We will evaluate the potential impact of any initiatives which, if enacted, could materially and adversely affect our practices and results of operations. We are unable to predict whether U.S. federal, state or local authorities will enact laws, rules or regulations that will require changes in our practices in the future, and any such changes could materially and adversely affect our cost of doing business and profitability. Our inability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted mortgage loans could increase our cost of doing business and/or diminish our expected return on investments. Our ability to promptly foreclose upon defaulted mortgage loans and liquidate the underlying real property plays a critical role in our valuation of the assets in which we invest and our expected return on those investments. There are a variety of factors that may inhibit our ability, through PLS, to foreclose upon a mortgage loan and liquidate the real property within the time frames we model as part of our valuation process. These factors include, without limitation: federal, state or local legislative action or initiatives designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures and that serve to delay the foreclosure process; HAMP and similar programs that require specific procedures to be followed to explore the refinancing of a mortgage loan prior to the commencement of a foreclosure proceeding; and continued declines in real estate values and sustained high levels of unemployment that increase the number of foreclosures and place additional pressure on the already overburdened judicial and administrative systems. In addition, certain issues, including "robo-signing," have been identified recently throughout the mortgage industry that relate to affidavits used in connection with the mortgage loan foreclosure process. A substantial portion of our investments are nonperforming mortgage loans, many of which are already subject to foreclosure proceedings at the time of purchase. While we have obtained assurances from PLS about its own practices relative to foreclosure proceedings and its proper use of affidavits, there can be no assurance that similar practices have been followed in connection with mortgage loans that are already subject to foreclosure proceedings at the time of purchase. To the extent we determine that any of these loans are impacted by these issues, we may be required to re-commence the foreclosure proceedings relating to such loans, thereby resulting in additional delay that could have the effect of increasing our cost of doing business and/or diminishing our expected return on our investments. The uncertainty surrounding these issues could also result in legal, regulatory or industry changes to the foreclosure process as a whole, any or all of which could lengthen the foreclosure process and negatively impact our business. 33 Table of Contents Challenges to the MERS  System could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. MERSCORP, Inc. is a privately held company that maintains an electronic registry, referred to as the MERS System, that tracks servicing rights and ownership of loans in the United States. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. ("MERS"), a wholly owned subsidiary of MERSCORP, Inc., can serve as a nominee for the owner of a mortgage loan and in that role initiate foreclosures and/or become the mortgagee of record for the loan in local land records. We, or PLS on our behalf, may choose to use MERS as a nominee. The MERS System is widely used by participants in the mortgage finance industry. Several legal challenges have been made disputing MERS's legal standing to initiate foreclosures and/or act as nominee in local land records. These challenges have focused public attention on MERS and on how loans are recorded in local land records. As a result, these challenges could negatively affect MERS's ability to serve as the mortgagee of record in some jurisdictions. In addition, where MERS is the mortgagee of record, it must execute assignments of mortgages, affidavits and other legal documents in connection with foreclosure proceedings. As a result, investigations by governmental authorities and others into the servicer foreclosure process deficiencies referenced above may impact MERS. Failures by MERS to apply prudent and effective process controls and to comply with legal and other requirements in the foreclosure process could pose operational, reputational and legal risks that may materially and adversely affect us. A decline in the value of the real estate underlying our mortgage loans may result in reduced risk-adjusted returns. The value of the real estate that underlies mortgage loans is subject to market conditions. Changes in the real estate market may adversely affect the value of the collateral and thereby lower the value to be derived from its liquidation. In addition, adverse changes in the real estate market increase the probability of default, as the incentive of the borrower to retain and protect equity in the property declines. Distressed loans may require a substantial amount of workout negotiations and/or restructuring, which may entail, among other things, a substantial reduction in the interest rate, capitalization of interest payments, and a substantial write-down of the principal of the loan. However, even if such restructuring were successfully accomplished, a risk exists that the borrower will not be able or willing to maintain the restructured payments or refinance the restructured mortgage upon maturity. Changes in prepayment rates could affect the value of our investment portfolio, which could result in losses or reduced earnings and materially and adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The value of our investment portfolio may be materially and adversely affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on loans are influenced by changes in market interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot predict with certainty such prepayment rates, and no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. Changes in prepayment rates may materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our portfolio and may result in losses or reduced earnings for us and materially and adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Many of our investments are illiquid and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. Our investments in mortgage loans are, and our investments in securities may be, illiquid. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain or validate third party pricing on the investments we 34 Table of Contents purchase. Illiquid investments typically experience greater price volatility, as a ready market does not exist, and can be more difficult to value. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need or desire arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the recorded value. Many of our investments are unrated or, where any credit ratings are assigned to our investments, they will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions and we cannot assure you that those ratings will not be downgraded. Many of our current investments are, and many of our future investments will not be, rated by any rating agency. Therefore, PCM's assessment of the value and pricing of our investments may be difficult and the accuracy of such assessment is inherently uncertain. However, certain of our investments may be rated. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which would materially and adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and could result in losses upon disposition or the failure of borrowers to satisfy their debt service obligations to us. We may not realize gains or income from our investments. While we seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation from our investments, our investments may not appreciate and, in fact, may decline in value. In addition, the obligors on our investments may default on, or be delayed in making, interest and/or principal payments, especially given that our current investment strategies focus, in part, on distressed opportunities and that we acquire nonperforming residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, we are subject to an increased risk of loss and may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset our losses and expenses. Insurance on real estate securing mortgage loans and real estate securities collateral may not cover all losses. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in the loss of cash flow from, and the asset value of, the affected property. We may be materially and adversely affected by risks affecting borrowers or the asset or property types in which our investments may be concentrated at any given time, as well as from unfavorable changes in the related geographic regions. Our assets are not subject to any geographic, diversification or concentration limitations except that we will be concentrated in residential mortgage-related investments. Accordingly, our investment portfolio may be concentrated by geography, asset, property type and/or borrower, increasing the risk of loss to us if the particular concentration in our portfolio is subject to greater risks or undergoing adverse developments. In addition, adverse conditions in the areas where the properties securing or otherwise underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply or reduced demand) may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments. A material decline in the demand for real estate in these areas may materially and adversely affect us. Lack of diversification can increase the correlation of non-performance and foreclosure risks among our investments. 35 Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown, recession or declining real estate values could materially and adversely affect us. The risks associated with our investments are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by high unemployment and declining real estate values. A weakening economy, high unemployment and declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that borrowers will default on their debt service obligations to us and that we will incur losses on our investments with them in the event of a default on a particular investment because the value of any collateral we foreclose upon may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such investment or may require a significant amount of time to realize. They may also increase the likelihood of re-default rates even after we have completed loan modifications. Any period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect the net interest income generated from our portfolio and our ability to make and finance future investments, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Fair values of our investments are imprecise and may materially and adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The values of some of our investments are not readily determinable. We measure the fair value of these investments monthly, but the fair value at which our assets are recorded may not be an indication of their realizable value. Ultimate realization of the value of an asset depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that are beyond the control of PCM, our company or our board of trustees. Further, fair value is only an estimate based on good faith judgment of the price at which an investment can be sold since market prices of investments can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller. In certain cases, PCM's estimation of the fair value of our investments includes inputs provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, and valuations of certain securities or other assets in which we invest are often difficult to obtain and are subject to judgments that may vary among market participants. Changes in the estimated fair values of those assets are directly charged or credited to earnings for the period. If we were to liquidate a particular asset, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such asset was recorded. Accordingly, in either event, the value of our common shares could be materially and adversely affected by our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments, and such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time. PCM utilizes analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of our investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith would subject us to potential risks. Given the complexity of our investments and strategies, PCM must rely heavily on models and data, including analytical models (both proprietary models developed by PCM and those supplied by third parties) and information and data supplied by third parties. Models and data are used to value investments or potential investments and also in connection with hedging our investments. In the event models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. For example, by relying on incorrect models and data, especially valuation models, PCM may be induced to buy certain investments at prices that are too high, to sell certain other investments at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether. Similarly, any hedging based on faulty models and data may prove to be unsuccessful. 36 Table of Contents Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of properties that we may acquire or the properties underlying our investments. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator was responsible for, or aware of, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances may also adversely affect an owner's ability to sell real estate, borrow using real estate as collateral or make debt payments to us. In addition, if we take title to a property, the presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect our ability to sell the property, and we may become liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for various fines, damages or remediation costs. Any of these liabilities or events may materially and adversely affect the value of the relevant asset and/or our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We are subject to counterparty risk and may be unable to seek indemnity or require our counterparties to repurchase mortgage loans if they breach representations and warranties, which could cause us to suffer losses. When we purchase nonperforming assets or newly originated loans through our correspondent lending operation, our counterparty typically makes customary representations and warranties to us about such assets or loans. Our residential mortgage loan purchase agreements may entitle us to seek indemnity or demand repurchase or substitution of the loans in the event our counterparty breaches a representation or warranty given to us. However, there can be no assurance that our mortgage loan purchase agreements will contain appropriate representations and warranties, that we will be able to enforce our contractual right to repurchase or substitution, or that our counterparty will remain solvent or otherwise be able to honor its obligations under our mortgage loan purchase agreements. Further, the majority of our nonperforming assets owned as of December 31, 2011 were purchased from or through one or more subsidiaries of Citigroup Inc., which is also one of our sources of financing. Our inability to obtain indemnity or require repurchase of a significant number of loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings. When we sell loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the loan purchaser. Our residential mortgage loan sale agreements may require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser. In addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we may be required to repurchase or substitute loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally broader than those available to us against the originator or correspondent lender, and if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the sellers. The repurchased loans typically can only be financed at a steep discount to their repurchase price, if at all. They are also typically sold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. Significant repurchase activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Certain provisions of Maryland law, our staggered board of trustees and certain provisions in our declaration of trust could each inhibit a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the "MGCL"), applicable to a Maryland real estate investment trust may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such common shares. In addition, our board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. Trustees of each class will be elected for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of trustees will be elected by our shareholders. The staggered terms of our trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our shareholders. Further, our declaration of trust authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares and preferred shares. Our board of trustees may, without shareholder approval, increase the aggregate number of our authorized common shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued common shares or preferred shares and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board may establish a class or series of common shares or preferred shares or take other actions that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. Compliance with our Investment Company Act exclusion imposes limits on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, our qualification for exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act will limit our ability to make certain investments, as discussed below. Failure to maintain our exclusion from registration under the Investment Company Act could materially and adversely affect us. Because we are organized as a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through our operating partnership and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, our status under the Investment Company Act is dependent upon the status of our operating partnership which, as a holding company, in turn, will have its status determined by the status of its subsidiaries. The securities issued to our operating partnership by subsidiaries excepted from the definition of "investment company" under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, together with any other investment securities owned by our operating partnership, may not have a value in excess of 40% of the value of our operating partnership's total assets on an unconsolidated basis. While we will monitor our holdings to ensure continuing and ongoing compliance with this asset test, if the value of such securities exceeds such 40% threshold, or if one or more of such subsidiaries fail to maintain their exceptions or exclusions from the Investment Company Act and we do not have available to us another basis on which we may avoid registration, we may have to register under the Investment Company Act. This could subject us to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters. It could also cause the breach of covenants we have made under certain of our financing arrangements, which could result in an event of default, acceleration of debt and/or termination. 38 Table of Contents In August 2011, the SEC solicited public comment through a concept release on a wide range of issues relating to the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption from the Investment Company Act, including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of the exemption and whether mortgage-related REITs should be regulated in a manner similar to investment companies. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of REITs, including guidance and interpretations from the Division of Investment Management of the SEC regarding the exceptions and exclusions therefrom, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If the SEC takes action that could result in our or our subsidiaries' failure to maintain an exception or exclusion from the Investment Company Act, we could, among other things, be required to (a) restructure our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so or (c) register as an investment company (which, among other things, would require us to comply with the leverage constraints applicable to investment companies), any of which could negatively affect the value of our common shares, the sustainability of our business model, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business and the market price of our common shares. Further, a loss of our Investment Company Act exclusion would allow PCM to terminate our management agreement with us, and our loan servicing agreement with PLS is subject to early termination in the event our management agreement is terminated for any reason. If either of these agreements is terminated, we will have to obtain the services on our own, and we may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all. This would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to execute our business strategy. Rapid changes in the values of our investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our REIT qualification or exclusion from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of our residential mortgage loans and other real estate-related assets declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase certain real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exclusion from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish, particularly given the illiquid nature of our investments. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent our REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our present and former trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our present and former trustees and officers will not have any liability to us or our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from either (a) actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or (b) active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment and is material to the cause of action. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify our present and former trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each present and former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our 39 Table of Contents shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management. Our declaration of trust provides that, subject to the rights of holders of any series of preferred shares, a trustee may be removed only for "cause" (as defined in our declaration of trust), and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of trustees. Vacancies generally may be filled only by a majority of the remaining trustees in office, even if less than a quorum, for the full term of the class of trustees in which the vacancy occurred. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees and may prevent a change in our control that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Risks Related to Taxation Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We are organized and operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to our shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn would have an adverse impact on the value of our common shares. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we face tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow, and a significant portion of our income may be earned through TRSs that are subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We also engage in business activities that are required to be conducted in a TRS. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we hold a significant portion of our assets through, and derive a significant portion of our taxable income and gains in, TRSs, subject to the limitation that securities in TRSs may not represent more than 25% of our assets in order for us to remain qualified as a REIT. All taxable income and gains derived from the assets held from time to time in our TRSs are subject to regular corporate income taxation. 40 Table of Contents The percentage of our assets represented by TRSs and the amount of our income that we can receive in the form of TRS dividends are subject to statutory limitations that could jeopardize our REIT status. No more than 25% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs (at the end of each quarter). While we intend to manage our affairs so as to satisfy this requirement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in all market circumstances. Although a TRS is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, we may from time to time need to make distributions of such after-tax income in order to keep the value of our TRSs below 25% of our total assets. However, for purposes of one of the tests we must satisfy to qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our gross income must in each taxable year generally be from real estate assets. While we monitor our compliance with both this income test and the limitation on the percentage of our assets represented by TRS securities, the two may at times be in conflict with one another. That is, it is possible that we may wish to distribute a dividend from a TRS in order to reduce the value of our TRSs below 25% of our assets, but be unable to do so without violating the requirement that 75% of our gross income in the taxable year be derived from real estate assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with both of these tests in all market conditions. Dividends payable by REITs do not generally qualify for the reduced tax rates applicable to certain corporate dividends. Recently enacted legislation has extended, through taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2012, the 15% maximum tax rate for dividends paid by certain corporations, as well as the 15% capital gains rate, applicable to eligible domestic shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates. Dividends paid by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common shares. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our shareholders in the future at current levels or at all. We are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year for us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy. To the extent we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be materially and adversely affected by the risk factors discussed in this Report and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Although we have made, and anticipate continuing to make, quarterly distributions to our shareholders, our board of trustees has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any future distributions to our shareholders, and such determination will depend upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could impair our ability to continue to make distributions to our shareholders are: our inability to invest the net proceeds from our equity offerings; our inability to make attractive risk-adjusted returns on our current and future investments; non-cash earnings or unanticipated expenses that reduce our cash flow; 41 Table of Contents defaults in our investment portfolio or decreases in its value; and the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to make distributions to our shareholders in the future or that the level of any future distributions will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. The REIT distribution requirements could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategies. We intend to continue to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid paying corporate tax on undistributed income. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets, borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis, or issue equity to meet the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. We may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. Due to the nature of the assets in which we invest and may invest, we may be required to recognize taxable income from those assets in advance of our receipt of cash flow on or proceeds from disposition of such assets. As a result, to the extent such income is not realized within a TRS, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares as part of a distribution in which shareholders may elect to receive shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements. We may be required to report taxable income early in our holding period for certain investments in excess of the economic income we ultimately realize from them. We acquire and/or expect to acquire in the secondary market debt instruments for less than their face amount, MBS issued with original issue discount, or debt instruments or MBS that are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments. In each case, we may be required to report income regardless of whether corresponding cash payments are received or are ultimately collectible. If we eventually collect less than we had previously reported as income, there may be a bad debt deduction available to us at that time, but our ability to benefit from that bad debt deduction would depend on our having taxable income in that later taxable year. This possible "income early, losses later" phenomenon could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders if it were persistent and in significant amounts. The share ownership limits applicable to us that are imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our declaration of trust may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of trustees to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Under our declaration of trust, no person may own more than 9.8% by vote or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares or more than 9.8% by vote or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest. Our board may 42 Table of Contents grant an exemption to the share ownership limits in its sole discretion, subject to certain conditions and the receipt of certain representations and undertakings. These share ownership limits are based upon direct or indirect ownership by "individuals," which term includes certain entities. Ownership limitations are common in the organizational documents of REITs and are intended, among other purposes, to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. However, our share ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. Complying with the REIT requirements can be difficult and may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. We may be required to make distributions to our shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments or require us to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Complying with the REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under current law, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate or currency risks will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests in certain instances. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise be subject to. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that our operating partnership is organized and operated in a manner so as to be treated as a partnership, and not an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it is not subject to U.S. federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is allocated its share of our operating partnership's income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") will not challenge its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, could cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our operating partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for debt service and for distribution. 43 Table of Contents The tax on prohibited transactions limits our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose to engage in certain sales of loans through a TRS and not at the REIT level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. We may hold a substantial amount of assets in one or more TRSs that are subject to corporate income tax on its earnings, which may reduce the cash flow generated by us and our subsidiaries in the aggregate, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The taxable mortgage pool ("TMP") rules may increase the taxes that we or our shareholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. Certain of our securitizations may likely be considered to result in the creation of TMPs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A TMP is always classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, as long as a REIT owns 100% of a TMP, such classification generally does not result in the imposition of corporate income tax, because the TMP is a "qualified REIT subsidiary." The requirement that a TMP be wholly owned by a REIT to be a qualified REIT subsidiary means that we would be precluded from holding equity interests in such a TMP through our operating partnership if the TMP were a U.S. entity that would be subject to taxation as a domestic corporation, unless our operating partnership itself formed another subsidiary REIT to own the TMP. In the case of such wholly REIT owned TMPs, certain categories of our shareholders, such as foreign shareholders otherwise eligible for treaty benefits, shareholders with net operating losses, and tax exempt shareholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income received from us that is attributable to the TMP or "excess inclusion income." In addition, to the extent that our shares are owned in record name by tax exempt "disqualified organizations," such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on our allocable portion of excess inclusion income from such a wholly REIT owned TMP. In that case and to the extent feasible, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose share ownership gave rise to the tax, or we may bear such tax as a general corporate expense. To the extent that our shares owned by disqualified organizations are held in record name by a broker/dealer or other nominee, the broker/dealer or other nominee would be liable for the corporate level tax on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the shares held by the broker/dealer or other nominee on behalf of disqualified organizations. While we intend to attempt to minimize the portion of our distributions that is subject to these rules, the law is unclear concerning computation of excess inclusion income, and its amount could be significant. In the case of any TMP that would be taxable as a domestic corporation if it were not wholly REIT owned, we would be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. This marketing limitation may prevent us from selling more junior or non investment grade debt securities in such securitizations and maximizing our proceeds realized in those offerings. 44 Table of Contents New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common shares. The U.S. federal tax rules that affect REITs constantly are under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to Treasury Regulations and interpretations. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments, which could also affect the tax considerations of an investment in our common shares. An IRS administrative pronouncement with respect to investments by REITs in distressed debt secured by both real and personal property, if interpreted adversely to us, could cause us to pay penalty taxes or potentially to lose our REIT status. Most of the mortgage loans that we acquire are acquired by us at a discount from their outstanding principal amount, because our pricing is generally based on the value of the underlying real estate that secures those mortgage loans. Treasury Regulation Section 1.856-5(c) (the "interest apportionment regulation") provides rules for determining what portion of the interest income from mortgage loans that are secured by both real and personal property is treated as "interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property." Under the interest apportionment regulation, if a mortgage covers both real property and other property, a REIT is required to apportion its annual interest income to the real property security based on a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of the real property securing the loan, determined when the REIT commits to acquire the loan, and the denominator of which is the highest "principal amount" of the loan during the year. The IRS has recently issued a revenue procedure, Revenue Procedure 2011-16, that contains an example regarding the application of the interest apportionment regulation. The example interprets the "principal amount" of the loan to be the face amount of the loan, despite the Internal Revenue Code requiring taxpayers to treat any market discount, that is the difference between the purchase price of the loan and its face amount, for all purposes (other than certain withholding and information reporting purposes) as interest rather than principal. The interest apportionment regulation applies only if the debt in question is secured both by real property and personal property. We believe that all of the mortgage loans that we acquire are secured only by real property and no other property value is taken into account in our underwriting and pricing. Accordingly, we believe that the interest apportionment regulation does not apply to our portfolio. Nevertheless, if the IRS were to assert successfully that our mortgage loans were secured by property other than real estate, that the interest apportionment regulation applied for purposes of our REIT testing, and that the position taken in Revenue Procedure 2011-16 should be applied to our portfolio, then depending upon the value of the real property securing our loans and their face amount, and the sources of our gross income generally, we might not be able to meet the 75% REIT gross income test applicable to REITs. If we did not meet this test, we could potentially either lose our REIT status or be required to pay a tax penalty to the IRS. With respect to the 75% REIT asset test, Revenue Procedure 2011-16 provides a safe harbor under which the IRS will not challenge a REIT's treatment of a loan as being a real estate asset in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date the REIT committed to acquire the loan or (2) the fair market value of the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT asset testing date. This safe harbor, if it applied to us, 45 Table of Contents would help us comply with the REIT asset tests following the acquisition of distressed debt if the value of the real property securing the loan were to subsequently decline. However, if the value of the real property securing the loan were to increase, the safe harbor rule of Revenue Procedure 2011-16, read literally, could have the peculiar effect of causing the corresponding increase in the value of the loan to not be treated as a real estate asset. We do not believe, however, that this was the intended result in situations in which the value of a loan has increased because the value of the real property securing the loan has increased, or that this safe harbor rule applies to debt that is secured solely by real property. Nevertheless, if the IRS took the position that the safe harbor rule applied in these scenarios, then we might not be able to meet the various quarterly REIT asset tests if the value of the real estate securing our loans increased, and thus the value of our loans increased by a corresponding amount. If we did not meet one or more of these tests, then we could potentially either lose our REIT status or be required to pay a tax penalty to the IRS. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 