D. Risk factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of the risks described below occur. As a result, the market price of our common shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” The risks below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect us. Risks relating to our business A substantial or extended decline in oil, natural gas and methanol prices may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenues, profitability, access to capital and growth rate. Historically, the markets for oil, natural gas and methanol (which historically have influenced prices for almost all of our Chilean gas sales) have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. International oil, natural gas and methanol prices have fluctuated widely in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. The prices that we will receive for our production and the levels of our production depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited, to the following: · global economic conditions; · changes in global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and methanol; · the actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; 6 · political and economic conditions, including embargoes, in oil-producing countries or affecting other countries; · the level of oil- and natural gas-producing activities, particularly in the Middle East, Africa, Russia, South America and the United States; · the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; · the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; · the price of methanol; · availability of markets for natural gas; · weather conditions and other natural disasters; · technological advances affecting energy production or consumption; · domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; · proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; · the price and availability of competitors’ supplies of oil and natural gas in captive market areas; · quality discounts for oil production based, among other things, on API and mercury content; · taxes and royalties under relevant laws and the terms of our contracts; · our ability to enter into oil and natural gas sales contracts at fixed prices; · the level of global methanol demand and inventories and changes in the uses of methanol; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; and · future changes to our hedging policies. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future natural gas and oil price movements. For example, recently, oil and gas prices have fluctuated significantly. From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, Brent spot prices ranged from a low of US$55.27 per barrel to a high of US$128.14 per barrel, NYMEX West Texas International, or WTI, crude oil contracts prices ranged from a low of US$53.45 per bbl to a high of US$113.39 per bbl, Henry Hub natural gas average spot prices ranged from a low of US$1.82 per mmbtu to a high of US$8.15 per mmbtu, US Gulf methanol spot barge prices ranged from a low of US$240.34 per metric ton to a high of US$564.12 per metric ton. Further, oil, natural gas and methanol prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. For the year ended December 31, 2014, 86% of our revenues, were derived from oil. Because we expect that our production mix will continue to be weighted towards oil, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in oil prices. As of December 31, 2014, natural gas comprised 14% of our revenues. A decline in natural gas prices could negatively affect our future growth, particularly for future gas sales where we may not be able to secure or extend our current long-term contracts. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. In addition, changes in oil and gas prices can impact our valuation of reserves and, in periods of sharply lower commodity prices, we may curtail production and capital spending projects or may defer or delay drilling wells because of lower cash flows. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 7 operations. We have historically not hedged our production to protect against fluctuations in the international oil prices. We may in the future consider adopting a hedging policy against commodity price risk, when deemed appropriate and taking into account the size of our business and market volatility. The current oil price crisis has impacted our operations and corporate strategies. We face limitations on our ability to increase prices or improve margins on the oil and natural gas that we sell. As a consequence of the oil price crisis which started in the second half of 2014 (WTI and Brent, the main international oil price markers, fell by approximately 50% between August 2014 and March 2015), the Company has undertaken a decisive cost cutting program to ensure its ability to both maximize ongoing work projects and to preserve its cash. The main actions that are being carried out under our 2015 cost-cutting program to address the oil industry price crisis include the: · reduction of our capital investment taking advantage of the flexible work program; · deferment of capital projects with relevant permissions and consents from regulatory authorities and partners, as permitted by our contracts. · renegotiation of licenses and concessions, where permitted, and renegotiation and reduction of oil and gas service contracts, including drilling and civil work contractors, as well as transportation, trucking and pipeline costs; and · improving the efficiency of our operating costs and the temporary suspension of certain low-margin producing oil and gas fields. In 2015 we reduced our workforce significantly. This reduction streamlined certain internal functions and departments to meet our current needs, which we expect will contribute to create a more efficient workforce in the current economic environment. As a result, we expect to realize US$12 million annually in cost savings associated with the reduction of full-time and temporary employees, excluding one-time termination costs of approximately US$6 million in 2015. Further cost reductions are expected in 2015 due to the general depreciation of Latin American currencies (Colombian peso, Brazilian real, Chilean peso, Argentine peso and Peruvian sol), in connection with operating and structure costs established in local currencies and also related to a voluntary salary reduction by GeoPark’s senior management team and Board of Directors. Our preliminary capital program for 2015 calls for approximately US$60 million - US$70 million to fund our exploration and development, which we intend to fund through cash flows from operations and cash-in-hand. Funding for this program relies in part on oil prices remaining close to current or higher levels and other factors to generate sufficient cash flow. Oil prices were very volatile at the end of 2014 and have remained at low levels in the first part of 2015. We have restricted activity and lowered our planned capital expenditure for 2015 as compared to previous years. Low oil prices affect our revenues, which in turn affects our debt capacity and the covenants in our financing agreements, as well the amount of money we can borrow using our oil reserves as collateral, as well as the amount of cash we are able to generate from current operations. If we are not able to generate the sales which, together with our current cash resources, are sufficient to fund our capital program, we will not be able to efficiently execute our work program which would cause us to further decrease our work program, which could harm our business outlook, investor confidence and our share price. In addition, actions taken by the company to maximize ongoing work projects and to reduce expenses, including renegotiations and reduction of oil and gas service contracts and other initiatives included in the cost cutting program adopted by us may expose us to claims and contingencies from interested parties that may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If oil prices continue to remain low then we may be unable to meet our contractual obligations with oil and service contracts and our suppliers. Equally, those third parties may be unable to meet their contractual obligations to us as a result of the oil price crisis, impacting on our operations. 8 Unfavorable credit and market conditions, such as the global financial crisis that began in 2008 or the recent decline in oil prices have affected and could continue to affect negatively the economies of the countries in which we operate and may negatively affect our business, and results of operations. Global financial crises and related turmoil in the global financial system have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The lingering effects of the global credit crisis that began in 2008 and of financial crises generally on our customers and on us cannot be predicted., which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the recent decline in WTI and Brent, the main international oil price markers, that fell by approximately 50% between August 2014 and March 2015 and which are expected to remain volatile in the near future, may also negatively affect the economies of the countries in which we operate. Any of the foregoing factors or a combination of these factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline over time. Our business is dependent on our continued successful identification of productive fields and prospects and the identified locations in which we drill in the future may not yield oil or natural gas in commercial quantities. Production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Accordingly, our current proved reserves will decline as these reserves are produced. As of December 31, 2014, our reserves-to-production (or reserve life) ratio for net proved reserves in Chile, Colombia and Brazil was 6 years. According to estimates, if on January 1, 2015, we ceased all drilling and development and workovers, including recompletions, refracs and workovers, our proved developed producing reserves base in Chile, Colombia, Argentina and Brazil would decline at an annual effective rate of 33% over the first three years, including 40% during the first year. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flows and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and using cost-effective methods to find or acquire additional recoverable reserves. While we have had success in identifying and developing commercially exploitable deposits and drilling locations in the past, we may be unable to replicate that success in the future. We may not identify any more commercially exploitable deposits or successfully drill, complete or produce more oil or gas reserves, and the wells which we have drilled and currently plan to drill within our blocks or concession areas may not discover or produce any further oil or gas or may not discover or produce additional commercially viable quantities of oil or gas to enable us to continue to operate profitably. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales to a few key customers. In Chile, 100% of our crude oil and condensate sales are made to ENAP. For the year ended December 31, 2014, sales to ENAP represented 32% of our revenues from oil and 28% of our total revenues. ENAP imports the majority of the oil it refines and partially supplements those imports with volumes supplied locally by its own operated fields and those operated by us. The sales contract with ENAP is commonly revised every year to reflect changes in the global oil market and to adjust for ENAP’s logistics costs in the Gregorio oil terminal. As of the date of this Annual Report, we are negotiating a new agreement with ENAP with an initial term of three to six months. In addition, in Chile, in the year ended December 31, 2014, almost all of our natural gas sales were made to Methanex under a long-term contract, the “Methanex Gas Supply Agreement”, which expires on April 30, 2017. Sales to Methanex represented 6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. However, if ENAP or Methanex were to decrease or cease purchasing our oil and gas, or if we were unable to renew these contracts at a lower sales price or at all, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations In Colombia, for the year ended December 31, 2014, we made 40.1% of our oil sales to Gunvor, 31.8% to Emerald and 11.0% to Perenco, with Gunvor accounting for 23.0%, Emerald 18.3% and Perenco 6.3% of our consolidated revenues for the same period. Our current sales contracts with Emerald, Perenco and Gunvor are short-term agreements. If any of Emerald, Perenco or Gunvor were to decrease or cease purchasing oil from us, or if any of them were to decide not to renew their contracts with us or to renew them at a lower sales price, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 In Brazil, all of our revenues from the sale of gas in the Manatí Field in Brazil were generated from sales to Petrobras, the operator of the Manatí Field, pursuant to a long-term gas off-take contract. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Significant agreements—Brazil—Petrobras Natural Gas Purchase Agreement.” In Peru, subject to government approval of GeoPark being assigned 75% in the Morona Block (also known as Lote 64), and other environmental permits and if we are able to start producing oil from this block, Petroperu, the Peruvian national oil company has the first option but not the obligation to purchase oil produced by us in the Marona Block. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although a majority of our net revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars, unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for certain of our expenses in Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Peru and Argentina could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, we have not entered, into derivative transactions to hedge the effect of changes in the exchange rate of local currencies to the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. In addition, our Rio das Contas acquisition, significantly increased our exposure to fluctuations in the real against the U.S. dollar, as Rio das Contas’s revenues and expenses are denominated in reais. The real has experienced frequent and substantial variations in relation to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. For example, the real was R$1.56 per US$1.00 in August 2008. Following the onset of the crisis in the global financial markets, the real depreciated 31.9% against the U.S. dollar and reached R$2.34 per US$1.00 at the end of 2008. In 2011, the real appreciated against the U.S. dollar, reaching R$1.876 per US$1.00 at the end of 2011. In 2012, however, the real depreciated, and on December 31, 2013, the exchange rate was R$2.3426 per US$1.00. As of December 31, 2014, the exchange rate was R$2.6562 per US$1.00. In the first three months of 2015, the real depreciated and the exchange rate as of March 31, 2015 was R$3.2080 per US$1.00. Depending on the circumstances, either depreciation or appreciation of the real could materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2014, we recorded exchange rate losses amounting to US$19.2 million in our Brazilian subsidiary that were generated by the credit facility of US$70.5 million that we incurred to acquire Rio das Contas in March 31, 2014. See “—A. Selected financial data—Exchange rates.” There are inherent risks and uncertainties relating to the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Our performance depends on the success of our exploration and production activities and on the existence of the infrastructure that will allow us to take advantage of our oil and gas reserves. Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that exploration activities will not identify commercially viable quantities of oil or natural gas. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of seismic and other data obtained through geophysical, geochemical and geological analysis, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Furthermore, the marketability of any oil and natural gas production from our projects may be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, proximity and capacity of pipelines and other means of transportation, the availability of upgrading and processing facilities, equipment availability and government laws and regulations (including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to prices, sale restrictions, taxes, governmental stake, allowable production, importing and exporting of oil and natural gas, environmental protection and health and safety). The effect of these factors, individually or jointly, cannot be accurately predicted, but may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 There can be no assurance that our drilling programs will produce oil and natural gas in the quantities or at the costs anticipated, or that our currently producing projects will not cease production, in part or entirely. Drilling programs may become uneconomic as a result of an increase in our operating costs or as a result of a decrease in market prices for oil and natural gas. Our actual operating costs or the actual prices we may receive for our oil and natural gas production may differ materially from current estimates. In addition, even if we are able to continue to produce oil and gas, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to market our oil and gas production. See “—Our inability to access needed equipment and infrastructure in a timely manner may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets and generate significant incremental costs or delays in our oil and natural gas production” below. Our identified potential drilling location inventories are scheduled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain potential drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 75 of our specifically identified potential future drilling locations were attributed to proved undeveloped reserves in Chile, Colombia and Brazil. These identified potential drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these identified potential drilling locations depends on a number of factors, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, the availability of gathering systems, marketing and transportation constraints, refining capacity, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, there can be no assurance that the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or, if they are, that we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. Our business requires significant capital investment and maintenance expenses, which we may be unable to finance on satisfactory terms or at all. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive and we expect to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas reserves. We made US$215.2 million and US$353.0 million (including US$140.1 million in Brazil to acquire Rio das Contas, which we financed through the incurrence of a loan of US$70.5 million and cash on hand) of capital expenditures during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, respectively. See “—Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and capital resources—Capital Expenditures” for expected capital expenditures in 2015. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other equipment and services, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. In response to improvements in commodity prices, we may increase or decrease our actual capital expenditures. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures through cash generated by our operations and potential future financing arrangements. However, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets. If our capital requirements vary materially from our current plans, we may require further financing. In addition, we may incur significant financial indebtedness in the future, which may involve restrictions on other financing and operating activities. We may also be unable to obtain financing or financing on terms favorable to us. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We are subject to complex laws common to the oil and natural gas industry, which can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive regulation and intervention by governments throughout the world, including extensive local, state and federal regulations, in such matters as the award of exploration and production interests, the imposition of specific exploration and drilling obligations, allocation of and restrictions on production, price controls, required divestments of assets and foreign currency controls, and the development and nationalization, expropriation or cancellation of contract rights. 11 We have been required in the past, and may be required in the future, to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations, including with respect to the following matters: · licenses, permits and other authorizations for drilling operations; · reports concerning operations; · compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; · drafting and implementing emergency planning; · plugging and abandonment costs; and · taxation. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for, among other things, personal injury, property damage, environmental damage and other types of damage. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that could substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, obligations, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the terms and conditions of the agreements under which our oil and gas interests are held generally reflect negotiations with governmental authorities and can vary significantly. These agreements take the form of special contracts, concessions, licenses, associations or other types of agreements. Any suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes in respect of these special contracts, concessions, licenses, associations or other types of agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Oil and gas operations contain a high degree of risk and we may not be fully insured against all risks we face in our business. Oil and gas exploration and production is speculative and involves a high degree of risk and hazards. In particular, our operations may be disrupted by risks and hazards that are beyond our control and that are common among oil and gas companies, including environmental hazards, blowouts, industrial accidents, occupational safety and health hazards, technical failures, labor disputes, community protests or blockades, unusual or unexpected geological formations, flooding, earthquakes and extended interruptions due to weather conditions, explosions and other accidents. For example, in the first half of 2013 we experienced a well control incident at our Chercán 1 well in the Flamenco Block in Chile with no harm to employees or property. While we were able to bring that incident under control without injuries or environmental damage, there can be no assurance that we will not experience similar or more serious incidents in the future, which could result in damage to, or destruction of, wells or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, business interruption, financial losses and legal liability. While we believe that we maintain customary insurance coverage for companies engaged in similar operations, we are not fully insured against all risks in our business. In addition, insurance that we do and may carry may contain significant exclusions from and limitations on coverage. We may elect not to obtain certain non-mandatory types of insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The occurrence of a significant event or a series of events against which we are not fully insured and any losses or liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The development schedule of oil and natural gas projects is subject to cost overruns and delays. Oil and natural gas projects may experience capital cost increases and overruns due to, among other factors, the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs and other essential equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services. The cost to execute projects may not be properly established and remains dependent upon a number of factors, including the completion of detailed cost estimates and final engineering, contracting and procurement costs. Development of projects may be materially adversely affected by one or more of the following factors: 12 · shortages of equipment, materials and labor; · fluctuations in the prices of construction materials; · delays in delivery of equipment and materials; · our ability to close our pending Morona Block Acquisition. · labor disputes; · political events; · title problems; · obtaining easements and rights of way; · blockades or embargoes; · litigation; · compliance with governmental laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; · adverse weather conditions; · unanticipated increases in costs; · natural disasters; · accidents; · transportation; · unforeseen engineering and drilling complications; · environmental or geological uncertainties; and · other unforeseen circumstances. Any of these events or other unanticipated events could give rise to delays in development and completion of our projects and cost overruns. For example, in 2013, the drilling and completion cost for the exploratory well Chilco x-1 in our Flamenco Block in Chile was originally estimated at US$2.6 million, but the actual cost was approximately US$4.0 million, mainly due to mechanical issues during the drilling as it was the first well drilled with a new drilling rig. Delays in the construction and commissioning of projects or other technical difficulties may result in future projected target dates for production being delayed or further capital expenditures being required. These projects may often require the use of new and advanced technologies, which can be expensive to develop, purchase and implement and may not function as expected. Such uncertainties and operating risks associated with development projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which makes it difficult for us to acquire properties and prospects, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. We compete with the major oil and gas companies engaged in the exploration and production sector, including state-owned exploration and production companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do for researching and developing exploration and production technologies and access to markets, equipment, labor and capital required to acquire, develop and operate our properties. We also compete for the acquisition of licenses and properties in the countries in which we operate. 13 Our competitors may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our competitors may also be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. In addition, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. As a result of each of the aforementioned, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel or raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Our competition.” In Chile, we partner with and sell to, and may from time to time compete with, ENAP and, to a lesser extent, some companies with operations in Argentina mentioned below. In Colombia, we partner with and sell to, and may from time to time compete with, Ecopetrol, as well as with privately-owned companies such as Pacific Rubiales, Gran Tierra, Parex Resources Colombia Ltd. Sucursal, or Parex, and Canacol, among others. In Brazil, we partner with and sell to, and may from time to time compete with, Petrobras, privately-owned companies such as HRT, QGEP, Brasoil and some of the Colombian companies mentioned above, which have entered into Brazil, among others. In Argentina, we compete for resources with YPF, as well as with privately-owned companies such as Pan American Energy, Pluspetrol, Tecpetrol, Chevron, Wintershall, Total, Sinopec and others. In Peru, we expect to partner with and expect to sell to, Petroperu and will compete for resources with privately-owned companies such as Pluspetrol, Gran Tierra, Repsol, Graña y Montero, Hunt Oil, Olympic Oil & Gas, Savia, among others; and with state-owned oil companies such as China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Our estimated oil and gas reserves are based on assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Our oil and gas reserves estimates in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru as of December 31, 2014 are based on the D&M Reserves Report. Although classified as “proved reserves,” the reserves estimates set forth in the D&M Reserves Reports are based on certain assumptions that may prove inaccurate. D&M’s primary economic assumptions in estimates included oil and gas sales prices determined according to SEC guidelines, future expenditures and other economic assumptions (including interests, royalties and taxes) as provided by us. In Chile, D&M’s estimates are based in part on the assumption that Methanex continues to commit to purchase Fell Block gas under the existing long-term contract beyond 2017. In Brazil, D&M’s estimates are also based in part on the assumption that the gas compression facility for the Manatí Field that started in 2014 will be completed by 2015. In Peru, the estimates are formulated on a pro forma basis. We expect to close the pending Morona Block Acquisition in 2015. Oil and gas reserves engineering is a subjective process of estimating accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and estimates of other engineers may differ materially from those set out herein. Numerous assumptions and uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, including projecting future rates of production, timing and amounts of development expenditures and prices of oil and gas, many of which are beyond our control. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of the estimate may require revisions to be made. For example, if we are unable to sell our oil and gas to customers, this may impact the estimate of our oil and gas reserves. Accordingly, reserves estimates are often materially different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, and if such recovered quantities are substantially lower that the initial reserves estimates, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to access needed equipment and infrastructure in a timely manner may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets and generate significant incremental costs or delays in our oil and natural gas production. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production depends substantially on the availability and capacity of processing facilities, oil tankers, transportation facilities (such as pipelines, crude oil unloading stations and trucks) and other necessary infrastructure, which may be owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such facilities on acceptable terms or on a timely basis could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut down oil and gas wells because access to transportation or processing facilities may be limited or unavailable when needed. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until arrangements were made to deliver the production to market, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the shutting in of wells can lead to mechanical problems upon bringing the production back on line, potentially resulting in decreased production and increased remediation costs. The exploitation and sale of oil and natural gas and liquids will also be subject to timely commercial processing and marketing of these products, which depends on the contracting, financing, building and operating of infrastructure by third parties. 14 In Chile, we transport the crude oil we produce in the Fell Block by truck to ENAP’s processing, storage and selling facilities at the Gregorio Refinery. As of the date of this Annual Report, ENAP purchases all of the crude oil we produce in Chile. We rely upon the continued good condition, maintenance and accessibility of the roads we use to deliver the crude oil we produce. If the condition of these roads were to deteriorate or if they were to become inaccessible for any period of time, this could delay delivery of crude oil in Chile and materially harm our business. For example, in January 2011, social and labor unrest resulted in the roads to the Gregorio Refinery being closed for two days, and we were unable to deliver crude oil to ENAP. In the Tierra del Fuego Blocks, we will temporarily depend on the existence of continuous ferry service to be able to transport crude oil from the island of Tierra del Fuego to the mainland. Ferry service may be adversely affected by weather conditions, in particular by certain combinations of strong winds and tidal currents that may occur, which may adversely affect our ability to deliver the crude oil we produce in Tierra del Fuego. In the Fell Block, we depend on ENAP-owned gas pipelines to deliver the gas we produce to Methanex, the sole purchaser of the gas we produce. If ENAP’s pipelines were unavailable, this could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to deliver and sell our product to Methanex, which could have a material adverse effect on our gas sales. In addition, gas production in some areas in the Tierra del Fuego Blocks and the Otway and Tranquilo Blocks could require us to build a new network of gas pipelines in order for us to be able to deliver our product to market, which could require us to make significant capital investments. In Colombia, producers of crude oil have historically suffered from tanker transportation logistics issues and limited storage capacity, which cause delays in delivery and transfer of title of crude oil. Such capacity issues in Colombia may require us to transport crude from our Colombian operations via truck, which may increase the costs of those operations. Road infrastructure is limited in certain areas in which we operate, and certain communities have used and may continue to use road blockages, which can sometimes interfere with our operations in these areas. For example, in December 2014, our Colombian production had been impacted by approximately 5,000 bopd during the last 13 days of the year by a road blockage, which was restored to normal production levels by the beginning of January 2015. While Brazil has a well-developed network of hydrocarbon pipelines, storage and loading facilities, we may not be able to access these facilities when needed. Pipeline facilities in Brazil are often full and seasonal capacity restrictions may occur, particularly in natural gas pipelines. Our failure to secure transportation or access to pipelines or other facilities once we commence operations in the concessions we were awarded in Brazil on acceptable terms or on a timely basis could materially harm our business. In Peru, future production in the Morona Bock is expected to be transported through the existing North Peruvian Pipeline, which has enough idle capacity to transport such future production. However, infrastructure problems or social unrest affecting the pipeline operation may adversely affect our production or revenues related to the Morona Block. In addition, as the Morona Block is located in a remote area of the tropical rainforest, the development of the project involves that significant infrastructure has to be built, as processing facilities, storages tanks and an approximately 97 km pipeline from the site to the North Peruvian Pipeline. Also, as there are no roads available in the surrounding area, logistics will be done by helicopters or barges during specific seasons of the year. Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are tools only used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures as well as eventual hydrocarbon indicators, and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. In addition, the use of seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of these expenditures. Because of these uncertainties associated with our use of seismic data, some of our drilling activities may not be successful or economically viable, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 15 Through our Brazilian operations, we face operational risks relating to offshore drilling that we have not faced in the past. To date, we have operated solely as an onshore oil and gas exploration and production company. However, our operations in the BCAM-40 Concession in Brazil may include shallow-offshore drilling activity in two areas in the Camamu-Almada Basin, which we expect will continue to be operated by Petrobras. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks and laws and regulations, including among other things, with respect to environmental, health and safety matters, specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities, compliance costs, fines or penalties that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. For example, the Manatí Field has been subject to administrative infraction notices, which have resulted in fines against Petrobras in an aggregate amount of US$12.5 million, all of which are pending a final decision of the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Natural Renewable Resources (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio-Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis), or IBAMA. Although the administrative fines were filed against Petrobras, as a party to the concession agreement governing the Manatí Field, Rio das Contas may be liable up to its participation interest of 10%. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Health, safety and environmental matters—Other regulation of the oil and gas industry—Brazil.” Additionally, offshore drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher-risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Offshore projects often lack proximity to existing oilfield service infrastructure, necessitating significant capital investment in flow line infrastructure before we can market the associated oil or gas of a commercial discovery, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some offshore reserve discoveries may never be produced economically. Further, because we are not the operator of our offshore fields, all of these risks may be heightened since they are outside of our control. We have a 10% interest in the Manatí Field which limits our operating flexibility in such offshore fields. See “—We are not, and may not be in the future, the sole owner or operator of all of our licensed areas and do not, and may not in the future, hold all of the working interests in certain of our licensed areas. Therefore, we may not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated and, to an extent, any non-wholly-owned, assets.” Our pending acquisition of the Morona Block in Peru is subject to regulatory approvals. In October 2014 we agreed to acquire from Petroperu a 75% working interest in the Morona Block in Northern Peru. We have been qualified as an operator by Perupetro S.A. (“Perupetro”), the Peruvian hydrocarbons licensing agency. The closing of the acquisition is subject to the occurrence of certain conditions, including obtaining other governmental approvals. Failure to obtain such approvals before June 30, 2015 may result in termination of the agreement. The transaction is expected to close in 2015. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Significant Agreements—Peru—Morona Block Acquisition.” We may suffer delays or incremental costs due to difficulties in negotiations with landowners and local communities where our reserves are located. Access to the sites where we operate requires agreements (including, for example, assessments, rights of way and access authorizations) with landowners and local communities. If we are unable to negotiate agreements with landowners, we may have to go to court to obtain access to the sites of our operations, which may delay the progress of our operations at such sites. In Chile, for example, we have negotiated the necessary agreements for many of our current operations in the Magallanes Basin. In the Tierra del Fuego Blocks, although we have successfully negotiated access to our sites, any future disputes with landowners or court proceedings may delay our operations in Tierra del Fuego Blocks. In Brazil, in the event that social unrest that occurred in 2013 continues or intensifies, this may lead to delays or damage relating to our ability to operate the assets we have acquired or may acquire in our Brazil Acquisitions. 16 In Colombia, although we have agreements with many landowners and are in negotiations with others, we expect our costs to increase following current and future negotiations regarding access to our blocks, as the economic expectations of landowners have generally increased, which may delay access to existing or future sites. In addition, the expectations and demands of local communities on oil and gas companies operating in Colombia have increased in the wake of recent changes to the royalty regime in Colombia. As a result, local communities have demanded that oil and gas companies invest in remediating and improving public access roads, compensate them for any damages related to use of such roads and, more generally, invest in infrastructure that was previously paid for with public funds. Due to these circumstances, oil and gas companies in Colombia, including us, are now dealing with increasing difficulties resulting from instances of social unrest, temporary road blockages and conflicts with landowners. For example, in December 2014, production from certain fields in the Llanos 34 Block was affected by a road blockage resulting in our reduction of production for a period of thirteen days that was returned to normal in early January 2015. There can be no assurance that disputes with landowners and local communities will not delay our operations or that any agreements we reach with such landowners and local communities in the future will not require us to incur additional costs, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Local communities may also protest or take actions that restrict or cause their elected government to restrict our access to the sites of our operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations at such sites. In Peru, the Morona Block is located in land inhabited by native communities. Land use agreements will have to be signed with the communities and social support programs are expected to be implemented by GeoPark. In the Morona Block, approximately seventy-five indigenous communities, which fall into twelve distinct community structures, have been identified. Despite indigenous community support for hydrocarbons activities since the mid-nineties, similar projects in the Peruvian rainforest have faced social conflicts and works delays due to community claims. Under the terms of some of our various CEOPs, E&P Contracts and concession agreements, we are obligated to drill wells, declare any discoveries and file periodic reports in order to retain our rights and establish development areas. Failure to meet these obligations may result in the loss of our interests in the undeveloped parts of our blocks or concession areas. In order to protect our exploration and production rights in our license areas, we must meet various drilling and declaration requirements. In general, unless we make and declare discoveries within certain time periods specified in our various CEOPs, E&P Contracts and concession agreements, our interests in the undeveloped parts of our license areas may lapse. Should the prospects we have identified under these contracts and agreements yield discoveries, we may face delays in drilling these prospects or be required to relinquish these prospects. The costs to maintain or operate the CEOPs, E&P Contracts and concession agreements over such areas may fluctuate and may increase significantly, and we may not be able to meet our commitments under such contracts and agreements on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which may force us to forfeit our interests in such areas. For example, on January 17, 2013, we voluntarily and formally announced to the Chilean Ministry of Energy our decision not to proceed with the second exploration period and to terminate the exploration phase under the Tranquilo Block CEOP, and subsequently relinquished all areas of the Tranquilo Block, except for an area of 92,417 gross acres, where we declared four hydrocarbons discoveries. Additionally, on April 10, 2013, we voluntarily and formally announced to the Chilean Ministry of Energy our decision not to proceed with the second exploratory period and to terminate the exploration phase under the Otway Block CEOP, and subsequently relinquished all areas of the Otway Block, except for two areas totaling 49,421 gross acres in which we have declared hydrocarbons discoveries. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Our operations—Operations in Argentina—Del Mosquito Block” See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Our operations—Operations in Chile—Otway and Tranquilo Blocks.” In Peru, the rights to explore and produce hydrocarbons are granted through a License Contract signed with Perupetro, a governmental entity. As GeoPark agreed to acquire a 75% interest in the Morona Block from Petroperu, we expect to be a partner to the Morona Block License Contract in 2015. This contract includes the obligation for GeoPark and Petroperu, our partner in the block, to build the facilities required to produce the hydrocarbons discovered in the block. The scope and schedule of such development will depend on us and Petroperu. The License Contract could be terminated by Perupetro if the development obligations included in such agreement are not fulfilled. In addition, there is also an exploratory commitment consisting of the drilling of one exploratory well every two and a half years. Failure to fulfill the exploratory commitment will lead to acreage relinquishment materially affecting the project. 17 Moreover, we have entered into a Joint Investment Agreement with Petroperu by which we are obliged to bear 100% of capital cost required to carry out long test to existing wells Situche Central 2X and Situche Central 3X. Failure to do so will result in the loss of our participating interest in the License Contract of the Morona Block, and subject us to possible damage claims from Petroperú. For additional details regarding the status of our operations with respect to our various special contracts and concession agreements, see “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Our operations.” A significant amount of our reserves and production have been derived from our operations in three blocks, the Llanos 34 in Colombia, the Fell Block in Chile and the BCAM-40 Concession in Brazil. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Llanos 34 Block contained 49% of our net proved reserves and generated 42% of our production, the Fell Block contained 26% of our net proved reserves and generated 30% of our total production and the BCAM-40 Concession contained 16% of our net proved reserves and generated 17% of our production. While our recent expansion into Brazil, Argentina and Colombia with new exploratory blocks incorporated in our portfolio in 2014 (and our expected future expansion into Peru) mean that these blocks are expected to be less significant component of our overall business than it has been in the past, we nonetheless expect that such blocks will continue to be responsible for a significant portion of our reserves and production. Any government intervention, impairment or disruption of our production due to factors outside of our control or any other material adverse event in our operations in such blocks would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts in obtaining rights to explore and develop oil and natural gas reserves are subject to contractual expiration dates and operating conditions, and our CEOPs, E&P Contracts and concession agreements are subject to early termination in certain circumstances. Under certain of the CEOPs, E&P Contracts and concession agreements to which we are or may in the future become parties, we are or may become subject to guarantees to perform our commitments and/or to make payment for other obligations, and we may not be able to obtain financing for all such obligations as they arise. If such obligations are not complied with when due, in addition to any other remedies that may be available to other parties, this could result in cancelation of our CEOPs, E&P Contracts and concession agreements or dilution or forfeiture of interests held by us. As of December 31, 2014, the aggregate outstanding amount of this potential liability for guarantees was approximately US$69.8 million, mainly relating to guarantees of our minimum work program for the VIM 3 Block in Colombia, our minimum work program for Tierra del Fuego Blocks in Chile and, to a significantly lesser extent, minimum work programs for our other Colombian operations, the ten Brazilian concession areas and the new blocks in Argentina. Additionally, certain of the CEOPs, E&P Contracts and concession agreements to which we are or may in the future become a party are subject to set expiration dates. Although we may want to extend some of these contracts beyond their original expiration dates, there is no assurance that we can do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, although some CEOPs contain provisions enabling exploration extensions. In particular, in Chile, our CEOPs provide for early termination by Chile in certain circumstances, depending upon the phase of the CEOP. For example, pursuant to the Fell Block CEOP, under which we are in the exploitation phase, Chile may terminate the CEOP if (i) we stop performing any of the substantial obligations assumed under the Fell Block CEOP without cause and do not cure such nonperformance pursuant to the terms of the concession, following notice of breach or (ii) our oil activities are interrupted for more than three years due to force majeure circumstances (as defined in the Fell Block CEOP). If the Fell Block CEOP is terminated in the exploitation phase, we will have to transfer to Chile, free of charge, any productive wells and related facilities, provided that such transfer does not interfere with our abandonment obligations and excluding certain pipelines and other assets. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Significant agreements—Chile—CEOPs—Fell Block CEOP.” If the CEOP is terminated early due to a breach of our obligations, we may not be entitled to 18 compensation. Additionally, our CEOPs for the Tierra del Fuego Blocks, which are in the exploration phase, may be subject to early termination during this phase under circumstances including (i) a failure by us to comply with minimum work commitments at the termination of any exploration period, (ii) a failure to communicate our intention to proceed with the next exploration period 30 days prior to its termination, (iii) a failure to provide the Chilean Ministry of Energy requisite performance bonds, (iv) a voluntary relinquishment by us of all areas under the CEOP, (v) a failure by us to meet the requirements to enter into the exploitation phase upon the termination of the exploration phase, and (vi) a permanent suspension by us of all operations in the CEOP area or our declaration of bankruptcy. If the Tierra del Fuego Block CEOPs are terminated within the exploration phase, we are released from all obligations under the CEOPs, except for obligations regarding the abandonment of fields, if any. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Significant agreements—Chile—CEOPs.” There can be no assurance that the early termination of any of our CEOPs would not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, according to the Chilean Constitution, Chile is entitled to expropriate our rights in our CEOPs for reasons of public interest. Although Chile would be required to indemnify us for such expropriation, there can be no assurance that any such indemnification will be paid in a timely manner or in an amount sufficient to cover the harm to our business caused by such expropriation. In Colombia, our E&P Contracts may be subject to early termination for a breach by the parties, a default declaration, application of any of the contracts’ unilateral termination clauses or pursuant to termination clauses mandated by Colombian law. Anticipated termination declared by the ANH results in the immediate enforcement of monetary guaranties against us and may result in an action for damages by the ANH and/or a restriction on our ability to engage in contracts with the Colombian government during a certain period of time. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Significant agreements—Colombia—E&P Contracts.” In Brazil, concession agreements generally may be renewed, at the ANP’s discretion, for an additional period, provided that a renewal request is made at least 12 months prior to the termination of the concession agreement and there has not been a breach of the terms of the concession agreement. We expect that all our concession agreements will provide for early termination in the event of: (i) government expropriation for reasons of public interest; (ii) revocation of the concession pursuant to the terms of the concession agreement; or (iii) failure by us or our partners to fulfill all of our respective obligations under the concession agreement (subject to a cure period). Administrative or monetary sanctions may also be applicable, as determined by the ANP, which shall be imposed based on applicable law and regulations. In the event of early termination of a concession agreement, the compensation to which we are entitled may not be sufficient to compensate us for the full value of our assets. Moreover, in the event of early termination of any concession agreement due to failure to fulfill obligations thereunder, we may be subject to fines and/or other penalties. In Peru, License Contracts for hydrocarbon exploitation are in force and will remain in effect for 30 years. This term is non-renewable. With regards to the Morona Block, currently one-third of the contract term has already elapsed, and twenty years remain. Nevertheless, since November 27, 2013, the License Contract related to the Morona Block is under force majeure. During a force majeure period contract terms are suspended (including the term time) as long as the party to the contract is fulfilling certain obligations pertaining to obtaining environmental permits, as is currently the case with the Morona Block. The term of the agreement will be extended by the same amount of time it has been suspended by a force majeure event. The concession year expiration is related to approval of environmental impact assessment (EIA) study for project development. The expiration of concession will occur twenty years after EIA approval. We expect the EIA to be approved in approximately in December 2016. The License Contract is also subject to early termination in case of breach of contractual obligations by GeoPark. In such an event, all the existing facilities and wells located in the block will be transferred, without charge, to Perupetro, and abandonment plans will have to be carried out by GeoPark for remediation and restoration of any polluted area in the block, and for de-commissioning the facilities that are no longer required for block’s operations. Early termination or nonrenewal of any CEOP, E&P Contract or concession agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial situation or results of operations. 19 We sell almost all of our natural gas in Chile to a single customer, who has in the past temporarily idled its principal facility. For the year ended December 31, 2014, almost all of our natural gas sales in Chile were made to Methanex under a long-term contract, the Methanex Gas Supply Agreement, which expires on April 30, 2017. Sales to Methanex represented 6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. Methanex also buys gas from ENAP and a consortium that Methanex has formed with ENAP. While our contract with Methanex requires it to purchase the entirety of our production of natural gas from the Fell Block, and requires us to sell to Methanex all of our natural gas production from Fell Block, subject to minor exceptions, if Methanex were to decrease or cease its purchase of gas from us, this would have a material adverse effect on our revenues derived from the sale of gas. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to extend or renew our contract with Methanex past April 30, 2017, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Methanex has two methanol producing facilities at its Cabo Negro production facility, near the city of Punta Arenas in southern Chile. However, after Argentine natural gas producers cut off exports to Chile in 2007, Methanex had to stop production at all but one of these facilities, and began to rely on local suppliers of natural gas, including ENAP, for its operations. Since 2009, however, the amount of natural gas that ENAP has been able to provide to Methanex has been decreasing, as ENAP has given priority to providing natural gas to the city of Punta Arenas in the Magallanes region. Although we sell all the natural gas we produce in the Fell Block to Methanex, and supplied approximately 50% of all the natural gas consumed by Methanex before the idling of its plant in May 2014, we alone cannot supply Methanex with all the natural gas it requires for its operations. The plant was idled due to an anticipated insufficient supply of natural gas. The supply of natural gas decreased during the winter months of 2014 due to the increase in seasonal gas demand from the city of Punta Arenas, to which gas producers, including GeoPark, gave priority, delivering gas to the city through Methanex which re-sold our gas to ENAP. Methanex continued to purchase from us the volume of gas we produced during the idling, and we signed an amendment to the agreement, pursuant to which Methanex pays us a premium over the current gas price for deliveries exceeding certain volumes of gas, since the Methanex plant’s startup, which occurred on September 11, 2014. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Marketing and delivery commitments—Chile.” Methanex made investments aimed at lowering its plant’s minimum gas requirements during the idling, so that the plant is currently able to function with 21.2 mcfpd of gas. However, there can be no assurance that Methanex will continue to purchase the gas from us or that its efforts to reduce the risk of future shutdowns will be successful, which could have a material adverse effect on our gas revenues. Additionally, there can be no assurance that Methanex will have sufficient supplies of gas to operate its plant and continue to purchase our gas production. If Methanex were to cease purchasing from us, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell our gas production to other parties or on similar terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to meet delivery requirements under the agreement for the sale of our natural gas in Chile. Under the Methanex Gas Supply Agreement, Methanex has committed to purchasing, and we have committed to selling, all of the gas that we produce in the Fell Block (subject to certain exceptions, including reasonable quantities required to maintain our operations and quantities that we might be required to pay in kind to Chile), with a minimum volume commitment which is defined by us on an annual basis. The agreement contains monthly DOP obligations, which require us to deliver in a given month the minimum gas committed for that month or pay a deficiency penalty to Methanex, with a threshold of 90% of the committed quantities of gas. The agreement also contains monthly TOP obligations, which apply when our committed volume for a given month exceeds 35.3 mcfpd, and require Methanex to take in such month the minimum gas volume committed for such period or face higher TOP obligations in later months, with a threshold of 90% of the committed quantities. These DOP and TOP obligations are subject to make-up provisions without penalty, for any delivery or off-take deficiencies accrued, in the three months following the month where delivery or off-take requirements were not met. On April 1, 2014, the Company and Methanex executed a fifth amendment to the Gas Supply Agreement, valid until April 30, 2015, which extended the fourth amendment conditions until May 18, 2015, and defined new conditions for the winter 2014 period (May 2014 to September 2014) and the post-winter period (October 2014 to April 2015). For the post-winter period the Company committed to deliveries over 400,000 SCM/d. The fifth amendment also waived the DOP and TOP thresholds for both parties, replacing them with reasonable efforts to take and deliver, and giving GeoPark’s gas first priority over any third party supplies to Methanex. 20 Though the fifth amendment waived the DOP and TOP thresholds for both parties, such clauses or new clauses introduced in further amendments may apply for periods beyond the ones covered in the above mentioned amendment. For example, in 2012, we failed to meet this adjusted volume for each of the months of April through December of 2012, such that we accrued US$1.7 million in DOP payments owed to Methanex under the Methanex Gas Supply Agreement, all of which had been paid as of September 30, 2013 We are not, and may not be in the future, the sole owner or operator of all of our licensed areas and do not, and may not in the future, hold all of the working interests in certain of our licensed areas. Therefore, we may not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated and, to an extent, any non-wholly-owned, assets. As of December 31, 2014, we are not the operator of the Llanos 17, Llanos 32 and Jagüeyes 3432 A Blocks in Colombia, which represented 3% of our total production as of December 31, 2014. In Chile we are not the sole owner of the Tranquilo, Isla Norte, Campanario and Flamenco blocks. In Colombia we are not the sole owner of the Llanos 34, CPO-4, Abanico and Cerrito blocks. In Brazil, we are not the operator of the BCAM-40 Concession, which represented approximately 14% of our total production for the year ended December 31, 2014. In Peru we will not be the sole owner of the Morona Block, as we are expected to assume a 75% working interest of the Morona Block, with Petroperu retaining a 25% working interest. Petroperu will also have the right to increase its working interest in the Block by up to 50%, subject to us recovering our investments in the Block through certain agreed terms. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Our operations—Operations in Peru—Morona Block.” In addition, the terms of the joint venture agreements or association agreements governing our other partners’ interests in almost all of the blocks that are not wholly-owned or operated by us require that certain actions be approved by supermajority vote. The terms of our other current or future license or venture agreements may require at least the majority of working interests to approve certain actions. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over operations or prospects in the blocks operated by our partners, or in blocks that are not wholly-owned or operated by us. A breach of contractual obligations by our partners who are the operators of such blocks could eventually affect our rights in exploration and production contracts in our blocks in Colombia. Our dependence on our partners could prevent us from realizing our target returns for those discoveries or prospects. Moreover, as we are not the sole owner or operator of all of our properties, we may not be able to control the timing of exploration or development activities or the amount of capital expenditures and may therefore not be able to carry out our key business strategies of minimizing the cycle time between discovery and initial production at such properties. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: · the timing and amount of capital expenditures; · the operator’s expertise and financial resources; · approval of other block partners in drilling wells; · the scheduling, pre-design, planning, design and approvals of activities and processes; · selection of technology; and · the rate of production of reserves, if any. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations on some of our license areas may cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 LGI, our strategic partner in Chile and Colombia, may not consent to our taking certain actions or may eventually decide to sell its interest in our Chilean and Colombian operations to a third party. We have a strategic partnership with LGI, which has a 20% equity interest in GeoPark Chile, a 14% direct equity interest in GeoPark TdF (31.2% taking into account direct and indirect participation through GeoPark Chile) and a 20% equity interest in GeoPark Colombia, through its equity interest in GeoPark Colombia Cooperatie. Our shareholders’ agreements with LGI in each of Chile and Colombia provides that we have a right of first offer if LGI decides to sell any of its interest in GeoPark Chile or GeoPark Colombia. There can be no assurance, however, that we will have the funds to purchase LGI’s interest in Chile and/or Colombia and that LGI will not decide to sell its shares to a third party whose interests may not be aligned with ours. In addition, our shareholders’ agreements with LGI in Chile and Colombia contain provisions that require GeoPark Chile and GeoPark Colombia to obtain LGI’s consent before undertaking certain actions. For example, under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement with LGI in Colombia, LGI must approve GeoPark Colombia’s annual budget and work programs and mechanisms for funding any such budget or program, the entering into any borrowings other than those provided in an approved budget or incurred in the ordinary course of business to finance working capital needs, the granting of any guarantee or indemnity to secure liabilities of parties other than those of our Colombian subsidiaries and disposing of any material assets other than those provided for in an approved budget and work program. Similarly, in Chile, pursuant to the terms of our shareholders’ agreements with LGI, LGI’s consent is required in order for GeoPark Chile or GeoPark TdF, as applicable, to be able to take certain actions, including: making any decision to terminate or permanently or indefinitely suspend operations in or surrender our blocks in Chile (other than as required under the terms of the relevant CEOP for such blocks); selling our blocks in Chile to our affiliates; making any change to the dividend, voting or other rights that would give preference to or discriminate against the shareholders of these companies; entering into certain related party transactions; and creating a security interest over our blocks in Chile (other than in connection with a financing that benefits our Chilean subsidiaries). Additionally, pursuant to our agreements with LGI in Chile, we and LGI have agreed to vote our common shares or otherwise cause GeoPark Chile or GeoPark TdF, as the case may be, to declare dividends only after allowing for retentions of cash to meet anticipated future investments, costs and obligations, and pursuant to our agreement with LGI in Colombia, we and LGI have agreed to vote our common shares or otherwise cause GeoPark Colombia to declare dividends only after allowing for retentions of cash for approved work programs and budgets and capital adequacy requirements of GeoPark Colombia, working capital requirements, banking covenants associated with any loan entered into by GeoPark Colombia or our other Colombian subsidiaries and operational requirements. Our inability to obtain LGI’s consent or a delay by LGI in granting its consent may restrict or delay the ability of GeoPark Chile, GeoPark TdF or GeoPark Colombia to take certain actions, which may have an adverse effect on our operations in such countries and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions that we have completed and any future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to integrate and/or identify, could divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our financial results, including impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. One of our principal business strategies includes acquisitions of properties, prospects, reserves and leaseholds and other strategic transactions, including in jurisdictions in which we do not currently operate. The successful acquisition and integration of producing properties, including our acquisitions of Winchester, Luna and Cuerva in Colombia, our Brazil acquisitions and pending Morona Block Acquisition, requires an assessment of several factors, including: · recoverable reserves; · future oil and natural gas prices; · development and operating costs; and · potential environmental and other liabilities. 22 The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review and the review of advisors and independent reserves engineers will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us or them to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential recoverable reserves. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental conditions are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. We, advisors or independent reserves engineers may apply different assumptions when assessing the same field. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. Even in those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, it remains possible that the seller will not be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. There can be no assurance that problems related to the assets or management of the companies and operations we have acquired, such as in Colombia or Brazil, or other companies or operations we may acquire in future, will not arise in future, and these problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including: · diversion of our management’s attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; · challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business; · contingencies and liabilities that could not be or were not identified during the due diligence process, including with respect to possible deficiencies in the internal controls of the acquired operations; and · challenge of attracting and retaining personnel associated with acquired operations. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. It is also possible that we may not identify suitable acquisition targets or strategic investment, partnership or alliance candidates. Our inability to identify suitable acquisition targets, strategic investments, partners or alliances, or our inability to complete such transactions, may negatively affect our competitiveness and growth opportunities. Moreover, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions, alliances or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such transaction and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Future acquisitions financed with our own cash could deplete the cash and working capital available to adequately fund our operations. We may also finance future transactions through debt financing, the issuance of our equity securities, existing cash, cash equivalents or investments, or a combination of the foregoing. Acquisitions financed with the issuance of our equity securities could be dilutive, which could affect the market price of our stock. Acquisitions financed with debt could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to principal and interest payments and could subject us to restrictive covenants. The PN-T-597 concession in Brazil is subject to an injunction and may not close. In Brazil, GeoPark Brazil is currently a party to a legal proceeding related to entry into the concession agreement of exploratory Block PN-T-597 that the ANP initially awarded to GeoPark Brazil in the 12th oil and gas bidding round held in November 2013. As a result of a class action filed by the Federal Prosecutor’s Office, an injunction was issued by a Brazilian Federal Court against the ANP, the Federal Government and GeoPark Brazil on December 13, 2013. Due to the injunction and a decision from the Board of the ANP, GeoPark Brazil could not proceed to execute the concession agreement, and cannot do so until the injunction is either lifted or clarified as to what conditions and which type of conventional drilling activities may be carried out by GeoPark Brazil. According to the terms of the Court’s injunction, the ANP will first need to take certain actions, such as conducting studies that prove that drilling unconventional resources will not contaminate the dams and aquifers in the region. On February 21, 2014, GeoPark Brazil requested that the board of the ANP suspend the execution of the concession agreement (which entails delivery of the financial guarantee and performance guarantee and payment of the signing bonus) for six months with a possible extension of an additional six months, or until a firm court decision is reached that does not prevent GeoPark Brazil from entering into the concession agreement. 23 On April 16, 2014, the ANP’s Board enacted a resolution stating that all proceedings related to the award of the concession of Block PN-T-597 to GeoPark Brazil were suspended. Due to similar law suits with the same types of claims filed in the states of Paraná and Bahia, where the Court decision was to carry out conventional drilling activities, we expect that such decisions may impact the law suit filed against us related to the Block PN-T-597, and also the ANP’s decision to suspend the process for not signing the concession agreement. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to extend the deadlines associated with the entry into the Concession Contract or enter into the concession agreement. See “—Item 8—Financial Information—A. Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings.” The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we have based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the 12 month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding 12 months. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as: · actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; · actual cost of development and production expenditures; · the amount and timing of actual production; and · changes in governmental regulations, taxation or the taxation invariability provisions in our CEOPs. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our proved undeveloped reserves ultimately may not be developed or produced. As of December 31, 2014, only approximately 32% of our net proved reserves have been developed (or 33% including the Morona Block in Perú). Development of our undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Additionally, delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the standardized measure value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves, and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic, causing the quantities associated with these uneconomic projects to no longer be classified as reserves. This was due to the uneconomic status of the reserves, given the proximity to the end of the concessions for these blocks, which does not allow for future capital investment in the blocks. There can be no assurance that we will not experience similar delays or increases in costs to drill and develop our reserves in the future, which could result in further reclassifications of our reserves. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Our customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant negative effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce the performance of obligations owed to us under contractual arrangements. 24 The combination of declining cash flows as a result of declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing basis under reserves-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of our customers’ liquidity and limit their ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged, and, in any event, are subject to their own operating expenses. Therefore, the risk we face in doing business with these customers may increase. Other customers may also be subject to regulatory changes, which could increase the risk of defaulting on their obligations to us. Financial problems experienced by our customers could result in the impairment of our assets, a decrease in our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail our customers’ future use of our products and services, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and may lead to a reduction in reserves. We may not have the capital to develop our unconventional oil and gas resources. We have identified opportunities for analyzing the potential of unconventional oil and gas resources in some of our blocks and concessions. Our ability to develop this potential depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. In addition, as we have no previous experience in drilling and exploiting unconventional oil and gas resources, the drilling and exploitation of such unconventional oil and gas resources depends on our ability to acquire the necessary technology, to hire personnel and other support needed for extraction or to obtain financing and venture partners to develop such activities. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities, or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet our expectations for success. Our operations are subject to operating hazards, including extreme weather events, which could expose us to potentially significant losses. Our operations are subject to potential operating hazards, extreme weather conditions and risks inherent to drilling activities, seismic registration, exploration, production, development and transportation and storage of crude oil, such as explosions, fires, car and truck accidents, floods, labor disputes, social unrest, community protests or blockades, guerilla attacks, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills and mechanical failure of equipment at our or third-party facilities. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our exploration and production operations, or disrupt transportation or other process-related services provided by our third-party contractors. We are highly dependent on certain members of our management and technical team, including our geologists and geophysicists, and on our ability to hire and retain new qualified personnel. The ability, expertise, judgment and discretion of our management and our technical and engineering teams are key in discovering and developing oil and natural gas resources. Our performance and success are dependent to a large extent upon key members of our management and exploration team, and their loss or departure would be detrimental to our future success. In addition, our ability to manage our anticipated growth depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel. Our ability to retain our employees is influenced by the economic environment and the remote locations of our exploration blocks, which may enhance competition for human resources where we conduct our activities, thereby increasing our turnover rate. There is strong ongoing competition in our industry to hire employees in operational, technical and other areas, and the supply of qualified employees is limited in the regions where we operate and throughout Latin America generally. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees of our technical team or our inability to hire and retain new qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We and our operations are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations which may result in material liabilities and costs. We and our operations are subject to various international, foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the emission and discharge of pollutants into the ground, air or water; the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of regulated materials; and human health and safety. Our operations are also subject to certain environmental risks that are inherent in the oil and gas industry and which may arise unexpectedly and result in material adverse effects on our business, 25 financial condition and results of operations. Breach of environmental laws, as well as impacts on natural resources and unauthorized use of such resources, could result in environmental administrative investigations and/or lead to the termination of our concessions and contracts. Other potential consequences include fines and/or criminal or civil environmental actions. For instance, non-governmental organizations seeking to preserve the environment may bring actions against us or other oil and gas companies in order to, among other things, halt our activities in any of the countries in which we operate or require us to pay fines. Additionally, in Colombia, recent rulings have provided that environmental licenses are administrative acts subject to class actions that could eventually result in their cancellation, with potential adverse impacts on our E&P Contracts. We are required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for our operations, including drilling permits for our wells. We have not been and may not be at all times in complete compliance with these permits and the environmental and health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject. If we violate or fail to comply with such requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, including through the revocation of our permits or the suspension or termination of our operations. If we fail to obtain, maintain or renew permits in a timely manner or at all (such as due to opposition from partners, community or environmental interest groups, governmental delays or any other reasons) or if we face additional requirements due to changes in applicable laws and regulations, our operations could be adversely affected, impeded, or terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some environmental licenses related to operation of the Manatí Field production system and natural gas pipeline have expired. However, the operator submitted timely a request for renewal of those licenses and as such this operation is not in default as long as the regulator does not state its final position on the renewal. We, as the owner, shareholder or the operator of certain of our past, current and future discoveries and prospects, could be held liable for some or all environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities arising out of our actions and omissions as well as those of our block partners, third-party contractors, predecessors or other operators. To the extent we do not address these costs and liabilities or if we do not otherwise satisfy our obligations, our operations could be suspended, terminated or otherwise adversely affected. We have also contracted with and intend to continue to hire third parties to perform services related to our operations. There is a risk that we may contract with third parties with unsatisfactory environmental, health and safety records or that our contractors may be unwilling or unable to cover any losses associated with their acts and omissions. Accordingly, we could be held liable for all costs and liabilities arising out of the acts or omissions of our contractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Releases of regulated substances may occur and can be significant. Under certain environmental laws and regulations applicable to us in the countries in which we operate, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our past and current facilities and at any third-party waste disposal sites used by us or on our behalf. Pollution resulting from waste disposal, emissions and other operational practices might require us to remediate contamination, or retrofit facilities, at substantial cost. We also could be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or for other damage resulting from the release of hazardous substances to the environment, property or to natural resources, or affecting endangered species or sensitive environmental areas. Environmental laws and regulations also require that wells be plugged and sites be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of the relevant regulatory authorities. We are currently required to, and in the future may need to, plug and abandon sites in certain blocks in each of the countries in which we operate, which could result in substantial costs. In addition, we expect continued and increasing attention to climate change issues. Various countries and regions have agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide (a byproduct of oil and natural gas combustion). The regulation of greenhouse gases and the physical impacts of climate change in the areas in which we, our customers and the end-users of our products operate could adversely impact our operations and the demand for our products. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations are complex and change frequently, and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future climate change, environmental, health and safety laws, the actions or omissions of our partners and third-party contractors and our liabilities arising from releases of, or exposure to, regulated substances may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Health, safety and environmental matters” and “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Industry and regulatory framework.” 26 Legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing and other drilling activities for unconventional oil and gas resources could increase the future costs of doing business, cause delays or impede our plans, and materially adversely affect our operations. Hydraulic fracturing of unconventional oil and gas resources is a process that involves injecting water, sand, and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate a higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. We are contemplating such use of hydraulic fracturing in the production of oil and natural gas from certain reservoirs, especially shale formations. We currently are not aware of any proposals in Chile, Colombia, Brazil, or Argentina to regulate hydraulic fracturing beyond the regulations already in place. However, various initiatives in other countries with substantial shale gas resources have been or may be proposed or implemented to, among other things, regulate hydraulic fracturing practices, limit water withdrawals and water use, require disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents, restrict which additives may be used, or implement temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing. If any of the countries in which we operate adopts similar laws or regulations, which is something we cannot predict right now, such adoption could significantly increase the cost of, impede or cause delays in the implementation of any plans to use hydraulic fracturing for unconventional oil and gas resources. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to raise additional capital, and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our existing agreements and borrowing of additional funds. As of December 31, 2014, we had US$369.6 million of total indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis, which is 100% secured. As of December 31, 2014, our annual debt service obligation was approximately US$25.3 million, which includes interest payments under the Notes due 2020 and the credit facility with Itaú BBA International plc. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness.” We are also restricted from entering into borrowing arrangements in some circumstances such as in Colombia where LGI must approve GeoPark Colombia’s borrowing arrangements, see “Item 4—Information about the Company—History,” for more information. Our substantial indebtedness could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to certain of our competitors that have less debt; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds; · in the case of our secured indebtedness, lose assets securing such indebtedness upon the exercise of security interests in connection with a default; · make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business and the industry in which we operate. Our Notes due 2020 include a covenant restricting dividend payments. For a description, see “—Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness—Notes due 2020.” As a result of these restrictive covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. At current prices, absent certain customary exceptions, we do not anticipate achieving an EBITDA (as defined in the indenture governing our notes due 2020) during fiscal year 2015 that would be sufficient enough to allow us to incur additional indebtedness, other than certain categories and small baskets of permitted debt, as specified in the indenture. Failure to comply with the restrictive covenants included in our Notes due 2020 would not trigger an event of default. 27 Similar restrictions could apply to us and our subsidiaries when we refinance or enter into new debt agreements which could intensify the risks described above. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats as well as other disasters, and related disruptions. Our business processes depend on the availability, capacity, reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. It is critical to our business that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure. Although we have implemented internal control procedures to assure the security of our data, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be sufficient for this purpose. The ability of the information technology function to support our business in the event of a security breach or a disaster such as fire or flood and our ability to recover key systems and information from unexpected interruptions cannot be fully tested and there is a risk that, if such an event actually occurs, we may not be able to address immediately the repercussions of a breach. In the event of a breach, key information and systems may be unavailable for a number of days leading to an inability to conduct our business or perform some business processes in a timely manner. We have implemented strategies to mitigate the impact from these types of events. Our employees have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spam” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by us but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information through email or download malware. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through education, “spoof” and “phishing” activities remain a serious problem that may damage our information technology infrastructure. Risks relating to the countries in which we operate Our operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which we operate and in which we may operate in the future. All of our current operations are located in South America. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our operations in Brazil, Chile and Colombia represented 14 %, 31 % and 55 %, respectively, of our total production, with our Argentine operations representing less than 1% of our total production. If local, regional or worldwide economic trends adversely affect the economy of any of the countries in which we have investments or operations, our financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected. Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to political and economic uncertainties (including but not limited to changes in energy policies or the personnel administering them), changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, expropriation of property, cancellation or modification of contract rights, revocation of consents or approvals, the obtaining of various approvals from regulators, foreign exchange restrictions, price controls, currency fluctuations, royalty increases and other risks arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty, as well as to risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war and community-based actions, such as protests or blockades, guerilla activities, terrorism, acts of sabotage, territorial disputes and insurrection. In addition, we are subject both to uncertainties in the application of the tax laws in the countries in which we operate and to possible changes in such tax laws (or the application thereof), each of which could result in an increase in our tax liabilities. These risks are higher in developing countries, such as those in which we conduct our activities. The main economic risks we face and may face in the future because of our operations in the countries in which we operate include the following: · difficulties incorporating movements in international prices of crude oil and exchange rates into domestic prices; 28 · the possibility that a deterioration in Chile’s, Colombia’s, Argentina’s, Peru’s or Brazil’s relations with multilateral credit institutions, such as the IMF, will impact negatively on capital controls, and result in a deterioration of the business climate; · inflation, exchange rate movements (including devaluations), exchange control policies (including restrictions on remittance of dividends), price instability and fluctuations in interest rates; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · tax policies; and · the possibility that we may become subject to restrictions on repatriation of earnings from the countries in which we operate in the future. In addition, our operations in these areas increase our exposure to risks of guerilla activities, social unrest, local economic conditions, political disruption, civil disturbance, community protests or blockades, expropriation, piracy, tribal conflicts and governmental policies that may: disrupt our operations; require us to incur greater costs for security; restrict the movement of funds or limit repatriation of profits; lead to U.S. government or international sanctions; limit access to markets for periods of time; or influence the market’s perception of the risk associated with investments in these countries. Some countries in the geographic areas where we operate have experienced, and may experience in the future, political instability, and losses caused by these disruptions may not be covered by insurance. Consequently, our exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Argentina’s National election for President and Vice-President will take place in October 2015, and other local and federal elections will also take place in 2015. We cannot guarantee that current programs and policies that apply to the oil and gas industry will remain in effect. Our operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the jurisdictions, including Bermuda, Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Peru, Argentina, the Netherlands and other jurisdictions in which we do business, that affect foreign trade and taxation, and by uncertainties in the application of, possible changes to (or to the application of) tax laws in these jurisdictions. Changes in any of these laws or policies or the implementation thereof, and uncertainty over potential changes in policy or regulations affecting any of the factors mentioned above or other factors in the future may increase the volatility of domestic securities markets and securities issued abroad by companies operating in these countries, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, we may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside the United States or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States, which could adversely affect the outcome of such dispute. The ongoing “Lava Jato” investigation regarding corruption at and with Petróleo Brasileiro S.A., or Petrobras, may hinder the growth of the Brazilian economy and could have an adverse effect on our business. Petrobras and certain other Brazilian companies active in the energy and infrastructure sectors are facing investigations by the Securities Commission of Brazil (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Brazilian Federal Police and the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor’s Office, in connection with corruption allegations, or the “Lava Jato” investigations. Depending on the duration and outcome of such investigations, the companies involved may face downgrades from rating agencies, funding restrictions and a reduction in their revenues. Given the relatively significant weight of the companies cited in the investigation, this could have an adverse effect on Brazil’s growth prospects and could have a protracted effect on the oil and gas industry. Negative effects on a number of companies may also impact the level of investments in infrastructure in Brazil which may lead to lower economic growth in the near to medium term. Persistently poor macroeconomic conditions resulting from, among other things, the Lava Jato investigations and their consequences could have a material adverse effect on us as Brazil is one of the markets we operate in. We depend on maintaining good relations with the respective host governments and national oil companies in each of our countries of operation. The success of our business and the effective operation of the fields in each of our countries of operation depend upon continued good relations and cooperation with applicable governmental authorities and agencies, including national oil companies such as ENAP, Ecopetrol and Petrobras. For instance, for the year ended December 31, 2014, 100% of our crude oil and condensate sales in Chile were made to ENAP, the Chilean state-owned oil company. In addition, our recent Rio das Contas acquisition in Brazil provides us with a long-term off-take contract with Petrobras, the Brazilian state-owned company that covers approximately 74% of net proved gas reserves in the Manatí Field. If we, the respective host governments and the national oil companies are not able to cooperate with one another, it could have an adverse impact on our business, operations and prospects. Oil and natural gas companies in Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Peru and Argentina do not own any of the oil and natural gas reserves in such countries. Under Chilean, Colombian, Brazilian, Peruvian and Argentine law, all onshore and offshore hydrocarbon resources in these countries are owned by the respective sovereign. Although we are the operator of the majority of the blocks and concessions in which we have a working and/or economic interest and generally have the power to make decisions as how to market the hydrocarbons we produce, the Chilean, Colombian, Brazilian, Peruvian and Argentine governments have full authority to determine the rights, royalties or compensation to be paid by or to private investors for the exploration or production of any hydrocarbon reserves located in their respective countries. 29 Under the Chilean Constitution, the state is the exclusive owner of all mineral and fossil substances, including hydrocarbons, regardless of who owns the land on which the reserves are located. The exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons may be carried out by the state, companies owned by state or private persons through administrative concessions granted by the President of Chile by Supreme Decree or by CEOPs executed by the Minister of Energy. Hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation activities are regulated by the Chilean Ministry of Energy. In Chile, a participant is granted rights to explore and exploit certain assets under a CEOP. Although the government cannot unilaterally modify or terminate the rights granted in the CEOP once it is signed, if a participant fails to complete certain obligations under a CEOP, such participant may lose the right to exploit certain areas or may be required to return all or a portion of the awarded areas back to Chile. In Colombia, oil and natural gas companies have acquired the exclusive right to explore, develop and produce reserves discovered within certain concession areas, pursuant to concession agreements awarded by the Colombian government through the ANH or, prior to 2004, entered into with Ecopetrol. However, a concessionaire owns only the oil and natural gas that it extracts under the concession agreements to which it is a party. If the Colombian government were to restrict or prevent concessionaires, including us, from exploiting these oil and natural gas reserves, or otherwise interfere with our exploration through regulations with respect to restrictions on future exploration and production, price controls, export controls, foreign exchange controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation or health and safety, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we are dependent on receipt of Colombian government approvals or permits to develop the concessions we hold in Colombia. There can be no assurance that future political conditions in Colombia will not result in the Colombian government adopting different policies with respect to foreign development and ownership of oil, environmental protection, health and safety or labor relations. This may affect our ability to undertake exploration and development activities in respect of present and future properties, as well as our ability to raise funds to further such activities. Any delays in receiving Colombian government approvals, permits or no objection certificates may delay our operations or may affect the status of our contractual arrangements or our ability to meet contractual obligations. Pursuant to Article 20 of the Brazilian Constitution and Article 3 of Law No. 9,478, dated as of August 6, 1997, as amended, or the Brazilian Petroleum Law, oil, natural gas and hydrocarbon reserves located within the Brazilian territory, which encompasses onshore and offshore reserves, as well as deposits in the Brazilian continental shelf, territorial waters and exclusive economic zone, are considered assets of the Brazilian government. Therefore, the concessionaire owns only the oil and natural gas that it produces under the concession agreements. Oil and natural gas companies in Brazil acquire the exclusive right to explore, develop and produce reserves discovered within certain concession areas pursuant to concession agreements awarded by the Brazilian government. However, if the Brazilian government were to restrict or prevent concessionaires, including us, from exploiting these oil and natural gas reserves, or interfere in the sale or transfer of the production, our ability to generate income would be materially adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Companies in the Brazilian oil and natural gas industry also rely primarily on the public auction process regulated by the ANP to acquire rights to explore oil and natural gas reserves. While the ANP may offer concessions in certain basins in future bidding rounds, there is a risk that future bidding rounds may not take place or that they do not include desirable locations, since they are conducted by and under the Brazilian government’s discretion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, expected results of operations and financial condition. In Peru, oil and gas exploration and production activities are conducted under license contracts granted by the Peruvian government. GeoPark has acquired a participation interest in the License Contract of Morona Block, and the effectiveness of such acquisition is subject to the approval by the Peruvian government. The governmental approval includes the qualification of GeoPark by Perupetro, in order to determine if it fulfills all the requirements needed to develop exploration and production activities in the Morona Block, as well as and the enactment of a Supreme Decree issued by the Peruvian Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Peruvian Ministry Energy and Mines. The qualification has already been granted by Perupetro, and the Supreme Decree is expected to be issued in 2015. Under the License Contract of Morona Block, GeoPark and Petroperu (GeoPark’s anticipated partner in the block) will have the exclusive right to perform exploration and production activities in such block, and will pay royalties for the hydrocarbons produced in this area. The ownership of the hydrocarbons produced in the Morona Block will belong to GeoPark in accordance with its participation interest in the block. 30 The exploration and production activities of GeoPark in the Morona Block will largely be shaped by the provisions included in the License Contract, and without such contract it is not possible to carry out any oil and gas activity in the Morona Block. In Argentina, jurisdiction over oil and gas activities is now largely vested in the same provincial states who own the relevant underground oil and gas resources. The Federal Executive Branch is still empowered to design and rule federal energy policy and to rule on domestic inter-jurisdictional and international oil and gas transportation concessions and has, for example, imposed measures controlling oil and gas investments in the provincial states. Private companies must obtain exploration permits or exploitation concessions from the provincial states or otherwise enter into certain types of joint venture or association agreements with provincial state-owned oil and gas companies in order to undertake exploration and production activities onshore, and must enter into certain types of joint venture or association agreements with the federally-owned oil and gas company, ENARSA, to undertake these activities offshore. Additionally, whereas until 2012, exploration permit and exploitation concession holders had the right to freely dispose of and market up to 70% of the production they generated, on July 28th, 2012, the publication of Presidential Decree 1277/2012 abrogated this right. As of December 31, 2014, our production in Argentina represented less than 1% of our total production, though recent regulations affecting the oil and gas industry in Argentina may have an adverse impact on our business, operations and prospects in Argentina. Oil and gas operators are subject to extensive regulation in the countries in which we operate. In Chile, rights to exploration and exploitation of a particular area are established in a CEOP. According to article 19, No 24 of the Chilean Constitution, the President of Chile has the power to determine the terms and conditions for the granting of a particular CEOP. In addition, the CEOP is subject to extensive supervision by the government through the Chilean Ministry of Energy. The President of Chile may also decide to terminate a CEOP early, though with compensation to the counterparty, and only if the relevant area is located within an area declared relevant for national security reasons. Although the government of Chile cannot unilaterally modify the rights granted in the CEOP once it is signed, exploration and exploitation are nonetheless subject to significant government regulations, such as regulations concerning the environment, tort liability, health and safety and labor, all of which have an impact on our business and operations. Changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on the costs and timing of our operations. For example, in November 2012, the government approved new regulations governing the abandonment of mines and oilfield operations that would require us to obtain prior approval for new oil wells and could also require us to post a bond in connection with the abandonment or closure of an oil well. The Colombian hydrocarbons industry is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the government in matters such as the environment, tort liability, health and safety, labor, the award of exploration and production contracts by the ANH, the imposition of specific drilling and exploration obligations, taxation, foreign currency controls, price controls, capital expenditures and required divestments. Existing Colombian regulation applies to virtually all aspects of our concessions or E&P Contracts in Colombia. The terms and conditions of the agreements with the ANH generally reflect negotiations with the ANH and other Colombian governmental authorities, and may vary by fields, basins and hydrocarbons discovered. We are required, as are all oil companies undertaking exploratory and production activities in Colombia, to pay a percentage of our expected production to the Colombian government as royalties. The Colombian government has modified the royalty program for oil and natural gas production several times in the last 20 years, as it has modified the regime regulating new contracts entered into with the Colombian government. The royalty regime for contracts being entered into today for conventional oil is tied to a scale ring-fenced by field starting at 8% for production of up to 5,000 mbopd and increases up to 25% for production above 600,000 mbopd. Royalties for natural gas production of onshore blocks where our assets are located, range between 8% and 25%. Furthermore, production of unconventional resources discovered as of May 19, 2012 is subject to royalties equivalent to 60% of the royalties applicable to conventional oil. In Brazil, the oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive regulation and intervention by the Brazilian government in such matters as the award of exploration and production interests, taxation and foreign currency controls. Ultimately, those regulations may also address restrictions on production, price controls, mandatory divestments of assets and nationalization, expropriation or cancellation of contractual rights. 31 Under these laws and regulations, there is potential liability for personal injury, property damage and other types of damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of operations or our being subjected to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and expected results of operations. We expect to also operate in a consortium in some of our concessions, which, under the Brazilian Petroleum Law, establishes joint and strict liability among consortium members. If the operator does not maintain the appropriate licenses, the consortium may suffer administrative penalties, including fines of R$10 to R$500 million. In addition, the local content policy, which is a contractual requirement in a Brazilian concession agreements, has become a significant issue for oil and natural gas companies operating in Brazil given the penalties related with breaches thereof. The local content requirement will also apply to the production sharing contract regime. See “—Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business overview—Our operations—Operations in Brazil.” In Peru, the hydrocarbons industry is also subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the government in matters such as: environment, health and safety, labor, imposition of specific development and exploration obligations, taxation, and tort liability. There are many supervisors and regulators, for example: a) Perupetro, the state-owned company that promotes, negotiates, signs, and supervises exploration and production contracts; b) The Ministry of Energy and Mines, which is the central and governing body for the Energy, Hydrocarbons and Mining Sector, and a part of the Executive Branch; c) The Bureau of Environmental Evaluation and Control – OEFA, which is the supervisory body that regulates, enforces and oversees the activities undertaken related to environmental hydrocarbon issues; d) The Supervisory Body of Private Investment in Energy and Mines – OSINERGMIN, which is the regulatory, supervisory body that regulates the activities undertaken by legal entities and individuals in the hydrocarbons sectors; e) The General Bureau of Environmental Health – DIGESA, which is the technical-regulatory body for aspects related to basic sanitation, occupational health, hygienic food, zoonosis and environmental protection; f) the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the entity that promotes the development of organized agrarian producers in productive chains; and g) The Ministry of Labor and Employment Promotion – MTPE, which is the body governing labor in Peru, responsible for enforcement of legislation for labor matters. The main provisions regarding oil and gas activities are included in the General Hydrocarbons Law (Law 26,221) (“General Hydrocarbons Law”), and several regulations have been enacted in order to develop the provisions included therein. There are specific regulations for exploration and production, transport, commercialization, storage, refining, distribution by pipelines, etc. Furthermore, the General Hydrocarbons Law and the related tax regulations foresee that the signing of an oil and gas agreement implies the guarantee that the tax regime in effect at the date of signature will not be changed during the life of the contract. This is intended to preserve the economy of the contract so that no further tax costs are created for the contractors. The signing of an agreement for the exploration or exploitation of a block freezes the tax regime in force at the date that the contract is signed for the entire life of the contract. Taxes covered by this provision are the taxes in which the responsibility rests on the contractor as a taxpayer. The Argentine hydrocarbons industry is also extensively regulated both by federal and provincial state regulations in matters including the award of exploration permits and exploitation concessions, investment, royalty, canon, price controls, export restrictions and domestic market supply obligations. The terms of our exploitation concessions are embodied in Decrees and Administrative Decisions issued by the Federal Executive Power and incorporate statutory rights and obligations provided under the General Hydrocarbons Law. The federal government is further empowered to design and implement federal energy policy and to rule on domestic inter-jurisdictional and international oil and gas transportation concessions, and has used these powers to establish export restrictions and duties, induce private companies to enter into price stability agreements with the government or otherwise impose price control regulations or create incentive programs to promote increased production. Jurisdictional controversies among the federal government and the provincial states are not uncommon. Significant expenditures may be required to ensure our compliance with governmental regulations related to, among other things, licenses for drilling operations, environmental matters, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization of oil and natural gas accumulations, local content policy and taxation. 32 Governmental actions in the countries in which we operate and in which we may operate in the future may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by actions taken by the Chilean, Colombian, Brazilian, Peruvian or Argentine governments concerning the economy, including actions aimed at targeting inflation, interest rates, oil and gas price controls, foreign exchange controls and taxes. Brazil has in the past periodically experienced extremely high rates of inflation. As measured by the National Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo), Brazil had annual rates of inflation of 6.5% in 2011, 5.8% in 2012, 5.9% in 2013 and 6.4 % in 2014. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in the future. Periods of higher inflation may slow the rate of growth of the Brazilian economy. Although the long-term off-take contract covering gas production in the Manatí Field is indexed to inflation, inflation is likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, and, as a result, may reduce our profit margins and net income. Inflationary pressures could also lead to counter-inflationary prices that may harm our business. Any decline in our expected net sales or net income could lead to a deterioration in our financial condition. In Argentina, since 2001, the Argentine government has imposed and expanded upon exchange controls and restrictions on the transfer of U.S. dollars outside of Argentina, which substantially limit the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. These and other measures have led the implied AR$/US$ exchange rate as reflected in the quotations for certain Argentine securities that trade in foreign markets to differ substantially from the official foreign exchange rate in Argentina. If the Argentine government decides once again to tighten the restrictions on the transfer of funds, we may be unable to make payments related to the import of products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, in May 2012, the Argentine government expropriated 51% of YPF’s capital stock owned by Repsol YPF of Spain, and 51% of the capital stock of Repsol YPF Gas owned by Repsol Butano. There can be no assurance that future economic, social and political developments in the countries in which we operate currently or in the future, which are out of our control, may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may be affected by tax reforms in the countries in which we operate and in which we may operate in the future. Our operations may be affected by changes in tax laws in the countries in which we operate and in which we may operate in the future. In 2014 Colombian and Chilean governments introduced tax reforms. For example, in the fourth quarter 2014, the Colombian government approved tax legislation increasing the rate of tax applicable to ordinary income from 34% in 2014 to 39% for 2015, 40% for 2016, 42% for 2017 and 43% for 2018. In the same legislation, the Colombian government also instituted a new “wealth tax” payable on the net equity of our Colombia business units at a rate of 1.15% for 2015, 1% for 2016 and 0.4% for 2017. (See Note 15 to our Financial Statements included in this Annual Report). In Brazil, the Brazilian government frequently implements changes to tax and social security regimes that may affect us and our customers. These changes include changes in prevailing tax and contribution rates and, occasionally, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. Some of these changes in tax laws may result in increases in our tax payments, which could materially adversely affect our profitability and increase the prices of our products and services, restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets and cause our results of operations to suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our projected cash flow and profitability following any increase in taxes applicable to us and to our operations. Colombia has experienced and continues to experience internal security issues that have had or could have a negative effect on the Colombian economy. Colombia has experienced internal security issues, primarily due to the activities of guerrillas, including the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia), or the FARC, paramilitary groups and drug cartels. In the past, guerrillas have targeted the crude oil pipelines, including the Oleoducto Transandino, Caño Limón-Coveñas and Ocensa pipelines, and other related infrastructure disrupting the activities of certain oil and natural gas companies. On several occasions guerilla attacks have resulted 33 in unscheduled shut-downs of the transportation systems in order to repair damaged sections and undertake clean-up activities. These activities, their possible escalation and the effects associated with them have had and may have in the future a negative impact on the Colombian economy or on our business, which may affect our employees or assets. In the context of the political instability, allegations have been made against members of the Colombian Congress and against government officials for possible ties with guerilla groups. This situation may have a negative impact on the credibility of the Colombian government, which could in turn have a negative impact on the Colombian economy or on our business in the future. The Colombian government commenced peace talks with the FARC in August 2012. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by rapidly changing economic or social conditions, including the Colombian government’s response to current peace negotiations which may result in legislation that increases our tax burden or that of other Colombian companies. Tensions with neighboring countries may affect the Colombian economy and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, from time to time, community protests and blockades may arise near our operations in Colombia, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in Argentina. Some of our current operations and management offices are located in Argentina. If local political or economic trends adversely affect the Argentine economy, our financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected. In particular, we face risks in Argentina related to the following: restrictions on Argentina’s energy supplies and an inadequate governmental response to such restrictions, which could negatively affect Argentina’s economic activity; social and political tensions and the governmental response to such tensions; requirements of the Federal General Environmental Law, which requires persons who carry out activities that are potentially hazardous to the environment to obtain insurance; and tax implications under Argentine law with respect to our incorporation in Bermuda, which may subject our Argentine subsidiaries to higher tax rates. Risks related to our common shares An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common shares may not develop and the price of our stock may be volatile, which could limit your ability to sell our common shares. Our common shares began to trade on the New York Stock Exchange on February 7, 2014, and as a result have a limited trading history. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will maintain an active trading market on the NYSE, or how liquid that market will be in the future. The market price of our common shares may be volatile and may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · our operating and financial performance and identified potential drilling locations, including reserve estimates; · quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as net income per common share, net income and revenues; · changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of reports by equity research analysts; · fluctuations in the price of oil or gas; · speculation in the press or investment community; · sales of our common shares by us or our shareholders, or the perception that such sales may occur; · involvement in litigation; · changes in personnel; · announcements by the company; 34 · domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. · variations in our quarterly operating results; · volatility in our industry, the industries of our customers and the global securities markets; · changes in our dividend policy; · risks relating to our business and industry, including those discussed above; · strategic actions by us or our competitors; · actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; · investor perception of us, the industry in which we operate, the investment opportunity associated with our common shares and our future performance; · adverse media reports about us or our directors and officers; · addition or departure of our executive officers; · change in coverage of our company by securities analysts; · trading volume of our common shares; · future issuances of our common shares or other securities; · terrorist acts; · the release or expiration of transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares. We have never declared or paid, and do not intend to pay in the foreseeable future, cash dividends on our common shares, and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our stock appreciates. We have never paid, and do not intend to pay in the foreseeable future, cash dividends on our common shares. Any decision to pay dividends in the future, and the amount of any distributions, is at the discretion of our board of directors and our shareholders, and will depend on many factors, such as our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, prospects and other factors. We are also subject to Bermuda legal constraints that may affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares and make other payments. Under the Bermuda Companies Act, we may not declare or pay a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or would after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due or that the realizable value of our assets would thereafter be less than our liabilities. We are also subject to contractual restrictions under certain of our indebtedness. We are a holding company dependent upon dividends from our subsidiaries, which may be limited by law and by contract from making distributions to us, which would affect our financial condition, including the ability to pay dividends on the common shares. As a holding company, our only material assets are our cash on hand, the equity interests in our subsidiaries and other investments. Our principal source of revenues and cash flow is distributions from our subsidiaries. Thus, our ability to pay dividends on the common shares will be contingent upon the financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are and will be separate legal entities, and although they may be wholly-owned or controlled by us, they have no obligation to make any funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends, distributions or otherwise. The ability of our subsidiaries to distribute cash to us is also subject to, among other things, restrictions that are contained in our and our subsidiaries’ financing (including our Notes due 2020 and GeoPark Brazil’s loan to finance Rio das Contas) and joint venture agreements (principally our agreements with LGI), availability of sufficient funds in such subsidiaries and applicable state laws and regulatory restrictions. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries generally will have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and claims of our creditors and stockholders. To the extent the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could be limited in any way, our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to pay dividends on the common shares, could be materially adversely affected. 35 Additionally, we may not be able to fully control the operations and the assets of our joint ventures and we may not be able to make major decisions or take timely actions with respect to our joint ventures unless our joint venture partners agree. For example, we have entered into shareholder agreements with LGI in Chile and Colombia that limit the amount of dividends that can be declared or returned to us, certain aspects related to the management of our Chilean and Colombian businesses, the incurrence of indebtedness, liens and our ability to sell certain assets. See “—Risks relating to our business—LGI, our strategic partner in Chile and Colombia, may sell its interest in our Chilean and Colombian operations to a third party or may not consent to our taking certain actions.” We may, in the future, enter into other joint venture agreements imposing additional restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. We may issue additional common shares or convertible securities in the future, for example, to finance potential acquisitions of assets, which we intend to continue to pursue. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. Under our memorandum of association, we are authorized to issue up to 5,171,949,000 common shares, of which 57,790,533 common shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2014. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common shares or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares would have on the market price of our common shares. Provisions of the Notes due 2020 could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the Notes due 2020 could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, or may even prevent a third party from acquiring us. For example, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of the Notes due 2020 will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus any accrued and unpaid interest (including any additional amounts, if any) to the date of purchase. By discouraging an acquisition of us by a third party, these provisions could have the effect of depriving the holders of our common shares of an opportunity to sell their common shares at a premium over prevailing market prices. Variations in interest rates and exchange rate on our current and/or future financing arrangements may result in significant increases in our borrowing costs. As of December 31, 2014, a part (19%) of our total debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2014, the outstanding long-term borrowing affected by variable rates amounted to US$ 68,540,000, representing 19% of total long-term borrowings, which was composed by the loan from Itaú Bank that has a floating interest rate based on LIBOR (the “Rio das Contas Credit Facility”). For more information, see “Item 4—Marketing and Delivery Commitments—Brazil,” and Note 3 in our Financial Statements. Consequently, variations in interest rates could result in significant changes in the amount required to cover our debt service obligations and our interest expense. In addition, interest and principal amounts payable pursuant to debt obligations denominated in or indexed to U.S. dollars are subject to variations in the foreign currency exchange rates that could result in a significant increase in the amount of the interest and principal payments in respect of such debt obligations. Certain shareholders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Mr. Gerald E. O’Shaughnessy, our Chairman, Mr. James F. Park, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Juan Cristóbal Pavez, director and Mr. Steven J. Quamme, control approximately 48% of our outstanding common shares as of the date of this annual report, holding the shares either directly or through privately held funds which they control. As a result, these shareholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of amalgamations, mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common shares. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—A. Major shareholders” for a more detailed description of our share ownership. 36 As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and NYSE governance standards than domestic U.S. issuers. This may afford less protection to holders of our common shares, and you may not receive corporate and company information and disclosure that you are accustomed to receiving or in a manner in which you are accustomed to receiving it. As a foreign private issuer, the rules governing the information that we disclose differ from those governing U.S. corporations pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Although we intend to report quarterly financial results and report certain material events, we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or provide current reports on Form 8 K disclosing significant events within four days of their occurrence and our quarterly or current reports may contain less information than required under U.S. filings. In addition, we are exempt from the Section 14 proxy rules, and proxy statements that we distribute will not be subject to review by the SEC. Our exemption from Section 16 rules regarding sales of common shares by insiders means that you will have less data in this regard than shareholders of U.S. companies that are subject to the Exchange Act. As a result, you may not have all the data that you are accustomed to having when making investment decisions. For example, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder with respect to their purchases and sales of our common shares. The periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers is more limited than that required of domestic U.S. issuers and there may therefore be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. public companies. See “—Item 10. Additional Information—H. Documents on display.” As a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from complying with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE applicable to a U.S. issuer, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors. As the corporate governance standards applicable to us are different than those applicable to domestic U.S. issuers, you may not have the same protections afforded under U.S. law and the NYSE rules as shareholders of companies that do not have such exemptions. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common shares less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company” we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares and our share price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards, and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We have evaluated our internal controls for our financial reporting and have determined our controls were effective for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. As long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company” as defined by the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, we will not be required to obtain an auditor’s attestation report on our internal controls in future annual reports on Form 20-F as otherwise required by Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm did not perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. Had our independent registered public accounting firm performed an attestation on our internal control over financial reporting, it is possible that their opinion on our internal controls could have differed from ours which could harm our reputation and share value. 37 We will continue to incur significantly increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company. Our recent initial public offering in February 2014 had a transformative effect on us. We expect to incur significant legal, accounting, reporting and other expenses as a result of having publicly traded common shares listed on the NYSE. We may also continue to incur costs which we have not incurred previously, including, but not limited to, costs and expenses for directors’ fees, increased directors and officers insurance, investor relations, and various other costs of a public company. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NYSE. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some management and corporate governance activities more time-consuming and costly, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to recruit and bring on a qualified independent board. The additional demands associated with being a public company listed on the NYSE may disrupt regular operations of our business by diverting the attention of some of our senior management team away from revenue-producing activities to management and administrative oversight, adversely affecting our ability to attract and complete business opportunities and increasing the difficulty in both retaining professionals and managing and growing our businesses. Any of these effects could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares which could result in the delay or denial of any transfers you might seek to make. The Bermuda Monetary Authority, or the BMA, must specifically approve all issuances and transfers of securities of a Bermuda exempted company like us unless it has granted a general permission. We are able to rely on a general permission from the BMA to issue our common shares, and to freely transfer of our common shares as long as the common shares are listed on the NYSE and/or other appointed stock exchange, to and among persons who are non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes. Any other transfers remain subject to approval by the BMA and such approval may be denied or delayed. We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or against our directors and executive officers. We are incorporated as an exempted company under the laws of Bermuda and substantially all of our assets are located in Chile, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil and will be located additionally in Peru. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us, or to recover against us on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. However, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. There is no treaty in force between the United States and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a United States judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a U.S. court that is final and for a sum certain based on U.S. federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the U.S. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda (not U.S.) law. 38 In addition, and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a U.S. federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to Bermuda public policy. An action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, will not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, would not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they would be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by our memorandum of association and bye-laws and Bermuda company law. The provisions of the Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Set forth below is a summary of these provisions, as well as modifications adopted pursuant to our bye-laws, which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Our shareholders approved the adoption of new bye-laws which came into effect on February 19, 2014, being the date on which the company cancelled admission of its common shares on AIM. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Under our bye-laws and The Companies Act, 1981(as amended) of Bermuda, or the Bermuda Companies Act, a director shall declare the nature of his interest in any contract or arrangement with the company. Our bye-laws further provide that a director so interested shall not, except in particular circumstances, be entitled to vote or be counted in the quorum at a meeting in relation to any resolution in which he has an interest, which is to his knowledge, a material interest (otherwise than by virtue of his interest in shares or debentures or other securities of or otherwise in or through the company). In addition, the director will not be liable to us for any profit realized from the transaction. In contrast, under Delaware law, such a contract or arrangement is voidable unless it is approved by a majority of disinterested directors or by a vote of shareholders, in each case if the material facts as to the interested director’s relationship or interests are disclosed or are known to the disinterested directors or shareholders, or such contract or arrangement is fair to the corporation as of the time it is approved or ratified. Additionally, such interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which such director derived an improper personal benefit. Amalgamations, Mergers and Similar Arrangements. Pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act, the amalgamation or merger of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation requires the amalgamation or merger agreement to be approved by the company’s board of directors and by its shareholders. Shareholder approval is not required where (i) the holding company and one or more of its wholly-owned subsidiary companies amalgamate or merge or (ii) two or more wholly-owned subsidiary companies of the same holding company amalgamate or merge. Save for such “short-form” amalgamations or mergers, unless the company’s bye-laws provide otherwise, the approval of 75% of the shareholders voting at such meeting is required to approve the amalgamation or merger agreement, and the quorum for such meeting must be two persons holding or representing more than one-third of the issued shares of the company. Under our bye-laws, an amalgamation or merger will require the approval of our board of directors and of our shareholders by Special Resolution, meaning a resolution adopted by 65% of more of the votes cast by shareholders who (being entitled to do so) vote in person or by proxy at any general meeting of the shareholders in accordance with the provisions of the bye-laws. Under Bermuda law, in the event of an amalgamation or merger of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation, a shareholder of the Bermuda company who is not satisfied that fair value has been offered for such shareholder’s shares may, within one month of notice of the shareholders meeting, apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda to appraise the fair value of those shares. Under Delaware law, with certain exceptions, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the assets of a corporation must be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. Under Delaware law, a shareholder of a corporation participating in certain major corporate transactions may, under certain circumstances, be entitled to appraisal rights pursuant to which such shareholder may receive cash in the amount of the fair value of the shares held by such shareholder (as determined by a court) in lieu of the consideration such shareholder would otherwise receive in the transaction. 39 Shareholders’ Suit. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply under the Bermuda Companies Act for an order of the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Our bye-laws contain a provision by virtue of which we and our shareholders waive any claim or right of action that they have, both individually and on our behalf, against any director or officer in relation to any action or failure to take action by such director or officer, except in respect of any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors. We may indemnify our directors and officers in their capacity as directors or officers for any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws provide that we shall indemnify our officers and directors in respect of their acts and omissions, except in respect of their fraud or dishonesty, or to recover any gain, personal profit or advantage to which such Director is not legally entitled, and (by incorporation of the provisions of the Bermuda Companies Act) that we may advance moneys to our officers and directors for the costs, charges and expenses incurred by our officers and directors in defending any civil or criminal proceedings against them on condition that the directors and officers repay the moneys if any allegations of fraud or dishonesty is proved against them provided, however, that, if the Bermuda Companies Act requires, and advancement of expenses shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts if it shall ultimately be determined by final decision that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under our Bye-law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. In addition, we have entered into customary indemnification agreements with our directors. As a result of these differences, investors could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income or capital gains. We have received from the Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or shares, debentures or other obligations, until March 31, 2035. We could be subject to taxes in Bermuda after that date. This assurance is subject to the provision that it is not to be construed to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to any property leased to us. We are incorporated in Bermuda as an exempted company and pay annual Bermuda government fees. In addition, all entities employing individuals in Bermuda are required to pay a payroll tax and there are other sundry taxes payable, directly or indirectly, to the Bermuda government. Neither we nor our Bermuda subsidiaries employ individuals in Bermuda as at the date of this annual report. 40 The transfer of our common shares may be subject to capital gains taxes pursuant to indirect transfer rules in Chile. In September 2012, Chile established “indirect transfer rules,” which impose taxes, under certain circumstances, on capital gains resulting from indirect transfers of shares, equity rights, interests or other rights in the equity, control or profits of a Chilean entity, as well as on transfers of other assets and property of permanent establishments or other businesses in Chile, or the Chilean Assets. As we indirectly own Chilean Assets, the indirect transfer rules would apply to transfers of our common shares provided certain conditions outside of our control are met. If such conditions were present and as a result the indirect transfer rules were to apply to sales of our common shares, such sales would be subject to indirect transfer tax on the capital gain that may be determined in each transaction. For a description of the indirect transfer rules and the conditions of their application see “—Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Chilean tax on transfers of shares.” Our common shares will for a time trade on two separate stock markets, and investors seeking to take advantage of price differences between such markets may create unexpected volatility in our share price; in addition, investors may not be able to easily move common shares for trading between such markets. Our common shares are currently registered on the NYSE and the Santiago Offshore Stock Exchange. Although we intend to de-register from the Santiago Offshore Stock Exchange as soon as practicable, our common shares will be traded on two markets for a period of time. During such time, price levels for our common shares could fluctuate between markets, independent of our share price on the other market. Investors could seek to sell or buy our common shares to take advantage of any price differences between the markets through a practice referred to as arbitrage. Any arbitrage activity could create unexpected volatility in the price of our common shares on the NYSE. 41 