ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock or other securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of our common stock or other securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Investors should be particularly cautious regarding investments in our common stock or other securities at the present time in light of the current economic circumstances. We are predominately a sub-prime lender, and our customers have been adversely impacted by the loss of jobs and the overall decline in the economy. Our Cash Flows and Net Income Are Dependent Upon Payments from Our Loans and Fees Receivable and Other Credit Products The collectibility of our loans and fees receivable is a function of many factors including the criteria used to select who is issued credit, the pricing of the credit products, the lengths of the relationships, general economic conditions, the rate at which customers repay their accounts or become delinquent, and the rate at which customers borrow funds from us. Deterioration in these factors, which we have experienced over the past few years, adversely impacts our business. In addition, to the extent we have over-estimated collectibility, in all likelihood we have over-estimated our financial performance. Some of these concerns are discussed more fully below. Our portfolio of receivables is not diversified and originates from customers whose creditworthiness is considered sub-prime. Historically, we have obtained receivables in one of two ways—we have either solicited for the origination of the receivables or purchased pools of receivables from other issuers. In either case, substantially all of our receivables are from financially underserved borrowers—borrowers represented by credit risks that regulators classify as “sub-prime.” Our reliance on sub-prime receivables has negatively impacted and may in the future negatively impact, our performance. Our various past and current losses might have been mitigated had our portfolios consisted of higher-grade receivables in addition to our sub-prime receivables. We have no immediate plans to issue or acquire significantly higher-grade receivables. We may not successfully evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers and may not price our credit products so as to remain profitable. The creditworthiness of our target market generally is considered “sub-prime” based on guidance issued by the agencies that regulate the banking industry. Thus, our customers generally have a higher frequency of delinquencies, higher risks of nonpayment and, ultimately, higher credit losses than consumers who are served by more traditional providers of consumer credit. Some of the consumers included in our target market are consumers who are dependent upon finance companies, consumers with only retail store credit cards and/or lacking general purpose credit cards, consumers who are establishing or expanding their credit, and consumers who may have had a delinquency, a default or, in some instances, a bankruptcy in their credit histories, but who, in our view, have demonstrated recovery. We price our credit products taking into account the perceived risk level of our customers. If our estimates are incorrect, customer default rates will be higher, we will receive less cash from the receivables and the value of our loans and fees receivable will decline, all of which will have a negative impact on performance. While they have begun to rebound modestly, payment rates by our customers declined significantly in 2008 and 2009 and, correspondingly, default rates likewise increased throughout that time period. It also is unclear whether our modestly improved payment rates can be sustained given weakness in the employment outlook and economic environment at large. Economic slowdowns increase our credit losses. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, we experience an increase in rates of delinquencies and frequency and severity of credit losses. Our actual rates of delinquencies and frequency and severity of credit losses may be comparatively higher during periods of economic slowdown or recession than those experienced by more traditional providers of consumer credit because of our focus on the financially underserved consumer market, which may be disproportionately impacted. We are subject to foreign economic and exchange risks. Because of our investments in the U.K., we have exposure to fluctuations in the U.K. economy, recent fluctuations in which have been significantly negative. We also have exposure to fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Because the British pound has experienced a net decline in value relative to the U.S. dollar since we made the most significant of our investments in the U.K., we have experienced significant transaction and translation losses within our financial statements. Because a significant portion of our reported income is based on management’s estimates of the future performance of our loans and fees receivable, differences between actual and expected performance of the receivables may cause fluctuations in net income. Significant portions of our reported income (or losses) are based on management’s estimates of cash flows we expect to receive on our loans and fees receivable, particularly for such assets that we report based on fair value. The expected cash flows are based on management’s estimates of interest rates, default rates, payment rates, cardholder purchases, servicing costs, and discount rates. These estimates are based on a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. Substantial differences between actual and expected performance of the receivables will occur and cause fluctuations in our net income. For instance, higher than expected rates of delinquencies and losses could cause our net income to be lower than expected. Similarly, as we have experienced for our credit card receivables portfolios with respect to financing agreements secured by our loans and fees receivable, levels of loss and delinquency can result in our being required to repay our lenders earlier than expected, thereby reducing funds available to us for future growth. Because all of our credit card receivables structured financing facilities are now in amortization status—which for us generally means that the only meaningful cash flows that we are receiving with respect to the credit card receivables that are encumbered by such structured financing facilities are those associated with our contractually specified fee for servicing the receivables—recent payment and default trends have substantially reduced the cash flows that we receive from these receivables. Due to the lack of historical experience with Internet customers, we may not be able to target successfully these customers or evaluate their creditworthiness. We have less historical experience with respect to the credit risk and performance of customers acquired over the Internet. As a result, we may not be able to target and evaluate successfully the creditworthiness of these potential customers should we engage in marketing efforts to acquire these customers. Therefore, we may encounter difficulties managing the expected delinquencies and losses and appropriately pricing our products. We Are Substantially Dependent Upon Borrowed Funds to Fund the Receivables We Originate or Purchase We finance our receivables in large part through financing facilities. All of our financing facilities are of finite duration (and ultimately will need to be extended or replaced) and contain financial covenants and other conditions that must be fulfilled in order for funding to be available. Moreover, most of these facilities currently are in amortization stages (and are not allowing for the funding of any new loans), either based on their original terms or because we have not met financial or asset performance-related covenants. The cost and availability of equity and borrowed funds is dependent upon our financial performance, the performance of our industry generally and general economic and market conditions, and at times equity and borrowed funds have been both expensive and difficult to obtain. Most recently as described below, funding for sub-prime lending has been very difficult to achieve. Beginning in 2007, largely as a result of difficulties in the sub-prime mortgage market, new financing generally has been unavailable to sub-prime lenders, and the financing that has been available has been on significantly less favorable terms. As a result, beginning in the third quarter of 2007, we significantly curtailed our marketing for new credit cards and currently are not issuing a significant number of new cards. Moreover, commencing in October 2008 we reduced credit lines and closed a significant number of accounts in response to the unavailability of financing and to reduce our risk exposure. These activities continued into 2009 and, as a result, substantially all of our credit cards are now closed to cardholder purchases. If additional financing facilities are not available in the future on terms we consider acceptable, we will not be able to grow our credit card business and it will continue to contract in size. 6 Table of Contents Our Financial Performance Is, in Part, a Function of the Aggregate Amount of Receivables That Are Outstanding The aggregate amount of outstanding receivables is a function of many factors including purchase rates, payment rates, interest rates, seasonality, general economic conditions, competition from other credit card issuers and other sources of consumer financing, access to funding, and the timing, extent and success of our marketing efforts. Our business currently is contracting. Growth is a product of a combination of factors, many of which are not in our control. Factors include: • the level and success of our marketing efforts; • the degree to which we lose business to competitors; • the level of usage of our credit products by our customers; • the availability of portfolios for purchase on attractive terms; • levels of delinquencies and charge offs; • the availability of funding on favorable terms; • the level of costs of soliciting new customers; • our ability to employ and train new personnel; • our ability to maintain adequate management systems, collection procedures, internal controls and automated systems; and • general economic and other factors beyond our control. We have substantially eliminated our credit card marketing efforts and have aggressively reduced credit lines and closed credit card accounts. In addition, the general economic downturn experienced in 2008 and 2009 significantly impacted not just the level of usage of our credit products by our customers but also levels of payments and delinquencies and other performance metrics. As a result, our business currently is contracting, and until market conditions more substantially reverse, we do not expect overall net growth in our Credit Card or our Auto Finance segments. We Operate in a Heavily Regulated Industry Changes in bankruptcy, privacy or other consumer protection laws, or to the prevailing interpretation thereof, may expose us to litigation, adversely affect our ability to collect account balances in connection with our traditional credit card business, our debt collection subsidiary’s charged-off receivables operations, and our auto finance and micro-loan activities, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Similarly, regulatory changes could adversely affect our ability or willingness to market credit cards and other products and services to our customers. The accounting rules that govern our business are exceedingly complex, difficult to apply and in a state of flux. As a result, how we value our receivables and otherwise account for our business is subject to change depending upon the changes in, and, interpretation of, those rules. Some of these issues are discussed more fully below. Reviews and enforcement actions by regulatory authorities under banking and consumer protection laws and regulations may result in changes to our business practices, may make collection of account balances more difficult or may expose us to the risk of fines, restitution and litigation. Our operations, and the operations of the issuing banks through which we originate credit products, are subject to the jurisdiction of federal, state and local government authorities, including the CFPB, the SEC, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the FTC, U.K. banking authorities, state regulators having jurisdiction over financial institutions and debt origination and collection and state attorneys general. Our business practices, including the terms of our products and our marketing, servicing and collection practices, are subject to both periodic and special reviews by these regulatory and enforcement authorities. These reviews can range from investigations of specific consumer complaints or concerns to broader inquiries into our practices generally. If as part of these reviews the regulatory authorities conclude that we are not complying with applicable law, they could request or impose a wide range of remedies including requiring changes in advertising and collection practices, changes in the terms of our products (such as decreases in interest rates or fees), the imposition of fines or penalties, or the paying of restitution or the taking of other remedial action with respect to affected customers. They also could require us to stop offering some of our products, either nationally or in selected states. To the extent that these remedies are imposed on the issuing banks through which we originate credit products, under certain circumstances we are responsible for the remedies as a result of our indemnification obligations with those banks. We also may elect to change practices or products that we believe are compliant with law in order to respond to regulatory concerns. Furthermore, negative publicity relating to any specific inquiry or investigation could hurt our ability to conduct business with various industry participants or to attract new accounts and could negatively affect our stock price, which would adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and would raise our costs of doing business. If any deficiencies or violations of law or regulations are identified by us or asserted by any regulator, or if the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the FDIC, the FTC or any other regulator requires us to change any of our practices, the correction of such deficiencies or violations, or the making of such changes, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or business. In addition, whether or not we modify our practices when a regulatory or enforcement authority requests or requires that we do so, there is a risk that we or other industry participants may be named as defendants in litigation involving alleged violations of federal and state laws and regulations, including consumer protection laws. Any failure to comply with legal requirements by us or the issuing banks through which we originate credit products in connection with the issuance of those products, or by us or our agents as the servicer of our accounts, could significantly impair our ability to collect the full amount of the account balances. The institution of any litigation of this nature, or any judgment against us or any other industry participant in any litigation of this nature, could adversely affect our business and financial condition in a variety of ways. We are dependent upon banks to issue credit cards. Our credit card programs are entirely dependent on our issuing bank relationships, and their regulators could at any time limit their ability to issue some or all products on our behalf, or that we service on their behalf, or to modify those products significantly. Any significant interruption of those relationships would result in our being unable to originate new receivables and other credit products. It is possible that a regulatory position or action taken with respect to any of the issuing banks through which we have originated credit products or for whom we service receivables might result in the bank’s inability or unwillingness to originate future credit products on our behalf or in partnership with us. In the current state, such a disruption of our issuing bank relationships would adversely affect our ability to grow our balance transfer program (and potentially the profitability of the program if issuing bank partners were to require account closures) within our Investments in Previously Charged-Off Receivables segment and to conduct credit card issuances in the U.K. 7 Table of Contents Changes to consumer protection laws or changes in their interpretation may impede collection efforts or otherwise adversely impact our business practices. Federal and state consumer protection laws regulate the creation and enforcement of consumer credit card receivables and other loans. Many of these laws (and the related regulations) are focused on sub-prime lenders and are intended to prohibit or curtail industry-standard practices as well as non-standard practices. For instance, Congress enacted legislation that regulates loans to military personnel through imposing interest rate and other limitations and requiring new disclosures, all as regulated by the Department of Defense. Similarly, in 2009 Congress enacted legislation that required changes to a variety of marketing, billing and collection practices, and the Federal Reserve recently adopted significant changes to a number of practices through its issuance of regulations. While our practices are in compliance with these changes, some of the changes (e.g., limitations on the ability to assess up-front fees) have significantly affected the viability of certain of our prior (in particular our lower-tier) product offerings. Changes in the consumer protection laws could result in the following: • receivables not originated in compliance with law (or revised interpretations) could become unenforceable and uncollectible under their terms against the obligors; • we may be required to credit or refund previously collected amounts; • certain fees could be prohibited or restricted, which would reduce the profitability of certain accounts; • certain of our collection methods could be prohibited, forcing us to revise our practices or adopt more costly or less effective practices; • limitations on the content of marketing materials could be imposed that would result in reduced success for our marketing efforts; • federal and state laws may limit our ability to recover on charged-off receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part; • reductions in statutory limits for finance charges could require us to reduce our fees and charges; • some of our products and services could be banned in certain states or at the federal level; • federal or state bankruptcy or debtor relief laws could offer additional protections to customers seeking bankruptcy protection, providing a court greater leeway to reduce or discharge amounts owed to us; and • a reduction in our ability or willingness to lend to certain individuals, such as military personnel. Material regulatory developments are likely to impact our business and results from operations. Legislative, regulatory and consumer activism toward the micro-loans industry is particularly active and at times particularly hostile, and changes in applicable laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could have a materially adverse effect on our micro-loan business, its prospects, our results of operations and our financial condition. Our U.S. Internet micro-loan business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs, limitations or prohibitions on the way we conduct or expand that business. These regulations govern or influence, among other things, interest rates and other fees, lending practices, recording and reporting of certain financial transactions, privacy of personal consumer information and collection practices. As we develop new product and service offerings, we may become subject to additional federal, state and local regulations. State and local governments also may seek to impose new licensing requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. In addition, changes in current laws and future laws or regulations may restrict or eliminate our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations; such laws regularly are proposed, introduced or adopted at the state and federal level in the U.S. Current and future litigation and regulatory proceedings against our former Retail Micro-Loans segment and U.S. Internet micro-loan business could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Certain subsidiaries within our Retail Micro-Loans segment (the operations of which we sold in October 2011) are subject to a lawsuit that could generate adverse publicity and cause them and us to incur substantial expenditures. See Part II, Item 1, “Legal Proceedings.” Adverse rulings in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could significantly impair our U.S. Internet micro-loan business and/or force us to cease doing business in one or more states or other geographic areas. This business is likely to be subject to litigation and proceedings in the future, and the consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation or proceeding could cause us to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate our operations in particular states. We also may be subject to adverse publicity. Defense of any lawsuits or proceedings, even if successful, requires substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and requires the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits also may result in significant payments and modifications to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our Automobile Lending Activities Involve Risks in Addition to Others Described Herein Automobile lending exposes us not only to most of the risks described above but also to additional risks, including the regulatory scheme that governs installment loans and those attendant to relying upon automobiles and their repossession and liquidation value as collateral. In addition, our most significant active Auto Finance segment business acquires loans on a wholesale basis from used car dealers, for which we rely upon the legal compliance and credit determinations by those dealers. Declines in automobile sales as we saw in recent years can cause declines in the overall demand for automobile loans. While currently recovering fairly significantly, sales of both new and used cars declined precipitously in recent years. While the unavailability of funding may have had a greater impact on our business, the decline in demand in recent years was consequential as well as it adversely affected the volume of our lending transactions and our recoveries of repossessed vehicles at auction. Any such future declines in demand will adversely impact our business. Funding for automobile lending is difficult to obtain and expensive. In large part due to market concerns regarding sub-prime lending, it is difficult to find lenders willing to fund our automobile lending activities. Our inability to obtain debt facilities with desirable terms (e.g., interest rates and advance rates) and the other capital necessary to fund growth within our Auto Finance segment will cause periods (like our current period) of liquidations in our Auto Finance segment receivables and reductions in profitability and returns on equity. Although we did not experience any such adverse effects when our CAR facility began its required amortization period in June 2011 and was repaid in July 2011 (and although any concerns of such adverse effects are now abated given the new lending facility CAR obtained in October 2011), in the event we may not be able to renew or replace any future Auto Finance segment facilities that bear refunding or refinancing risks when they become due, our Auto Finance segment could experience significant liquidity constraints and diminution in reported asset values as lenders retain significant cash flows within underlying structured financings or otherwise under security arrangements for repayment of their loans. If we cannot renew or replace future facilities or otherwise are unduly constrained from a liquidity perspective, we may choose to sell part or all of our auto loan portfolios, possibly at less than favorable prices. 8 Table of Contents Our automobile lending business is dependent upon referrals from dealers. Currently we provide automobile loans only to or through used car dealers. Providers of automobile financing have traditionally competed based on the interest rate charged, the quality of credit accepted and the flexibility of loan terms offered. In order to be successful, we not only will need to be competitive in these areas, but also will need to establish and maintain good relations with dealers and provide them with a level of service greater than what they can obtain from our competitors. The financial performance of our automobile loan portfolio is in part dependent upon the liquidation of repossessed automobiles. In the event of certain defaults, we may repossess automobiles and sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the U.S. Auction proceeds from these types of sales and other recoveries rarely are sufficient to cover the outstanding balances of the contracts; where we experience these shortfalls, we will experience credit losses. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold in periods of economic slowdown or recession have resulted in higher credit losses for us. Additionally, higher gasoline prices (like those experienced during 2008) tend to decrease the auction value of certain types of vehicles, such as SUVs. Repossession of automobiles entails the risk of litigation and other claims. Although we have contracted with reputable repossession firms to repossess automobiles on defaulted loans, it is not uncommon for consumers to assert that we were not entitled to repossess an automobile or that the repossession was not conducted in accordance with applicable law. These claims increase the cost of our collection efforts and, if correct, can result in awards against us. We Routinely Explore Various Opportunities to Grow Our Business, to Make Investments and to Purchase and Sell Assets We routinely consider acquisitions of, or investments in, portfolios and other assets as well as the sale of portfolios and portions of our business. There are a number of risks attendant to any acquisition, including the possibility that we will overvalue the assets to be purchased and that we will not be able to produce the expected level of profitability from the acquired business or assets. Similarly, there are a number of risks attendant to sales, including the possibility that we will undervalue the assets to be sold. As a result, the impact of any acquisition or sale on our future performance may not be as favorable as expected and actually may be adverse. Portfolio purchases may cause fluctuations in reported credit card managed receivables data, which may reduce the usefulness of historical credit card managed loan data in evaluating our business. Our reported managed credit card receivables data may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter as a result of recent and future credit card portfolio acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, credit card portfolio acquisitions accounted for 41.4% of our total credit card managed receivables portfolio based on our ownership percentages. Receivables included in purchased portfolios are likely to have been originated using credit criteria different from the criteria of issuing bank partners that have originated accounts on our behalf. Receivables included in any particular purchased portfolio may have significantly different delinquency rates and charge-off rates than the receivables previously originated and purchased by us. These receivables also may earn different interest rates and fees as compared to other similar receivables in our receivables portfolio. These variables could cause our reported managed receivables data to fluctuate substantially in future periods making the evaluation of our business more difficult. Any acquisition or investment that we make will involve risks different from and in addition to the risks to which our business is currently exposed. These include the risks that we will not be able to integrate and operate successfully new businesses, that we will have to incur substantial indebtedness and increase our leverage in order to pay for the acquisitions, that we will be exposed to, and have to comply with, different regulatory regimes and that we will not be able to apply our traditional analytical framework (which is what we expect to be able to do) in a successful and value-enhancing manner. We regularly explore investments in other lines of business where we believe the returns will meet our requirements. While these investments have not been significant recently, we expect them to increase in the future as the opportunities to invest in our traditional businesses remain unattractive. These investments may or may not be in areas where we have specialized expertise, and may carry risks in addition to those described above. In addition, some of these investments that we have made and may make in the future are or will be in debt or equity securities of businesses over which we exert little or no control, which likely exposes us to greater risks of loss than investments in activities and operations that we control. We experienced such losses in the amount of $5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with other-than-temporary declines in the values of loans that we made to other business enterprises. Other Risks of Our Business Climate change and related regulatory responses may impact our business. Climate change as a result of emissions of greenhouse gases is a significant topic of discussion and may generate federal and other regulatory responses in the near future, including the imposition of a so-called “cap and trade” system. It is impracticable to predict with any certainty the impact on our business of climate change or the regulatory responses to it, although we recognize that they could be significant. The most direct impact is likely to be an increase in energy costs, which would adversely impact consumers and their ability to incur and repay indebtedness. However, it is too soon for us to predict with any certainty the ultimate impact, either directionally or quantitatively, of climate change and related regulatory responses. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. As a result, our cash flow and ability to service our debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries. Our ability to service our debt is dependent upon the cash flows and operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of subsidiary earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by subsidiaries to us, all of which are subject to statutory and could be subject to contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ cash flows and earnings and are subject to various business and debt covenant considerations. In addition, we are considering further restructuring options. Unless we obtain a bank charter, we cannot issue credit cards other than through agreements with banks. Because we do not have a bank charter, we currently cannot issue credit cards other than through agreements with banks. Previously we applied for permission to acquire a bank and our application was denied. Unless we obtain a bank or credit card bank charter, we will continue to rely upon banking relationships to provide for the issuance of credit cards to our customers. Even if we obtain a bank charter, there may be restrictions on the types of credit that the bank may extend. Our various issuing bank agreements have scheduled expirations dates. If we are unable to extend or execute new agreements with our issuing banks at the expirations of our current agreements with them, or if our existing or new agreements with our issuing banks were terminated or otherwise disrupted, there is a risk that we would not be able to enter into agreements with an alternate provider on terms that we consider favorable or in a timely manner without disruption of our business. We are party to litigation. As more fully discussed above, we are defendants in a number of legal proceedings. This includes litigation with holders of our convertible senior notes concerning past and possible future distributions to our shareholders, litigation relating to our former retail micro-loan operations and other litigation customary for a business of our nature. In each case we believe that we have meritorious defenses or that the positions we are asserting otherwise are correct. However, adverse outcomes are possible in each of these matters, and we could decide to settle one or more of these matters in order to avoid the cost of litigation or to obtain certainty of outcome. Adverse outcomes or settlements of these matters could require us to pay damages, make restitution, change our business practices or take other actions at a level, or in a manner, that would adversely impact our business. 9 Table of Contents We face heightened levels of economic risk associated with new investment activities. We recently have made a number of investments in businesses that are not directly allied to our traditional lending activities to, or associated with, the underserved consumer credit market and in businesses in which we exert little or no control. We expect to make other such investments in the future. While we will make only those investments that we believe will provide a favorable return, because some of the investments are outside of our core areas of expertise, they entail risks beyond those described elsewhere in this Report. These risks could result in the loss of part or all of our investments (e.g., as occurred with respect to our recognition of a complete loss of investment in the amount of $3.4 million on notes that we held in a non-financial business concern during the three months ended September 30, 2011, and our loss of another $1.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2011 due to an other-than-temporary decline in the value of another issuer’s notes in which we had previously invested). We may not be able to purchase charged-off receivables at sufficiently favorable prices or terms for our debt collection operations to be successful. The charged-off receivables that Jefferson Capital, our debt collection subsidiary, acquires and services (or resells) have been deemed uncollectible and written off by the originators. Factors causing the acquisition price of targeted portfolios to increase could reduce the ratio of collections (or sales prices received) to acquisitions costs for a given portfolio, and thereby negatively affect Jefferson Capital’s profitability. The availability of charged-off receivables portfolios at favorable prices and on favorable terms depends on a number of factors, including the continuation of the current growth and charge-off trends in consumer receivables, our ability to develop and maintain long-term relationships with key charged-off receivable sellers, our ability to obtain adequate data to appropriately evaluate the collectibility of portfolios and competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and sellers of charged-off receivables, including pricing pressures, which may increase the cost to us of acquiring portfolios of charged-off receivables and reduce our return on such portfolios. Because we outsource account-processing functions that are integral to our business, any disruption or termination of that outsourcing relationship could harm our business. We outsource account and payment processing, and in 2011, we paid Total System Services, Inc. $9.3 million for these services. If these agreements were not renewed or were terminated or the services provided to us were otherwise disrupted, we would have to obtain these services from an alternative provider. There is a risk that we would not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider on terms that we consider favorable or in a timely manner without disruption of our business. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation, and civil and criminal penalties. To conduct our business, we are required to manage, use, and store large amounts of personally identifiable information, consisting primarily of confidential personal and financial data regarding our customers. We also depend on our IT networks and systems, and those of third parties, to process, store, and transmit this information. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. federal and state laws designed to protect this information. Security breaches involving our files and infrastructure could lead to unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We take a number of measures to ensure the security of our hardware and software systems and customer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect data being breached or compromised. In the past, consumer finance companies have been the subject of sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on their information technology. An increasing number of websites have reported breaches of their security. If any person, including our employees or those of third-party vendors, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to costly litigation, monetary damages, fines, and/or criminal prosecution. Any unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information could subject us to liability under data privacy laws. Further, under credit card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that we store, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow credit card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines. Internet and data security breaches also could impede us from originating loans over the Internet, cause us to lose customers or otherwise damage our reputation or business. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy, particularly on the Internet. As part of our growth strategy, we have originated loans over the Internet. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintaining customer confidence in our products and services offered online. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer application and transaction data transmitted over the Internet. In addition to the potential for litigation and civil penalties described above, security breaches could damage our reputation and cause customers to become unwilling to do business with us, particularly over the Internet. Any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Our ability to solicit new loans over the Internet would be severely impeded if consumers become unwilling to transmit confidential information online. Also, a party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Regulation in the areas of privacy and data security could increase our costs. We are subject to various regulations related to privacy and data security/breach, and we could be negatively impacted by these regulations. For example, we are subject to the safeguards guidelines under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The safeguards guidelines require that each financial institution develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. Broad-ranging data security laws that affect our business also have been adopted by various states. Compliance with these laws regarding the protection of customer and employee data could result in higher compliance and technology costs for us, as well as potentially significant fines and penalties for non-compliance. In addition to the foregoing enhanced data security requirements, various federal banking regulatory agencies, and as many as 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data breach regulations and laws requiring varying levels of customer notification in the event of a security breach. Also, federal legislators and regulators are increasingly pursuing new guidelines, laws and regulations that, if adopted, could further restrict how we collect, use, share and secure customer information, which could impact some of our current or planned business initiatives. Unplanned system interruptions or system failures could harm our business and reputation. Any interruption in the availability of our transactional processing services due to hardware and operating system failures will reduce our revenues and profits. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential members to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our websites or services, and could permanently harm our reputation. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems also are subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. 10 Table of Contents Because of our loan to a coal mining operation (which was modified in late 2011 to require the consolidation of this operation into our financial statements), we could be subject to (i) significant administrative, civil, and criminal financial and other penalties if this operation does not comply with environmental, health and safety regulations and (ii) liability to third parties for environmental contamination. The coal mining industry is subject to strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, the protection of the environment, the protection of historic and natural resources, plants and wildlife, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Federal and state authorities inspect coal mines, and in the aftermath of the April 5, 2010 accident at an underground mine in Central Appalachia, mining operations have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, a significant increase in the frequency and scope of these inspections. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. Mining operations are required to prepare and present to federal, state and/or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations related to these and other environmental matters may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal financial and other penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from the mine’s operations. New legislation or administrative regulations or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including proposals related to the protection of the environment and the protection of historic and natural resources that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be subject to claims by third parties under federal and state statutes and/or common law doctrines resulting from damage to the environment or historic or natural resources or exposure to hazardous substances on the mine property or elsewhere. Liability for environmental contamination may be without regard to fault and may be strict, joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for the entire amount of the contamination or related damages. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that the mining operation may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with the mining operation, could result in costs and liabilities that could adversely affect us. Even though this coal mining operation is owned and primarily operated by third parties, our financial relationship with this coal mining operation could subject us to these types of claims and penalties, particularly if these matters are not properly addressed by the owners and operators of this coal mining operation. If we are held responsible for sanctions, costs and liabilities in respect of these matters, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Taxing authorities routinely review our tax returns and could challenge the positions that we have taken. Our businesses and the tax accounting for our businesses are very complex, thereby giving rise to a number of tax positions that are under consideration, and in some cases under dispute, in audits of our operations by various taxing authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service at the federal level with respect to net operating losses that we incurred in 2007 and 2008 and that we carried back to obtain tentative refunds of federal taxes paid in earlier years dating back to 2003. It is possible that a court of ultimate jurisdiction may resolve tax positions in favor of the Internal Revenue Service or that we may ultimately settle with the Internal Revenue Service on one or more uncertain tax positions in a manner that differs from the liabilities that we have recorded associated with such positions under our recognition and measurement determinations. The amounts involved in these audits, particularly the amounts of net operating losses that we carried back, are material. To the extent that our ultimate resolution results in more liability than we have recorded, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell your shares of our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the overall financing environment, which is critical to our value; • the operating and stock performance of our competitors and other sub-prime lenders; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in interest rates; • the announcement of enforcement actions or investigations against us or our competitors or other negative publicity relating to us or our industry; • changes in GAAP, laws, regulations or the interpretations thereof that affect our various business activities and segments; • general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • future sales of our common stock and the share lending agreement. In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. 11 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, including sales of our common stock pursuant to share lending agreements or short sales transactions by purchasers of convertible notes securities, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market, including sales pursuant to share lending agreements, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. Future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, including sales of our common stock in short sales transactions by purchasers of our convertible notes, may have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our business is going through a substantial period of transition and we are exploring various options. Because of the unavailability of growth financing for our traditional business, we are exploring various options designed to produce the greatest benefit possible for our shareholders. Currently these options include the payment of cash dividends and share repurchases, and we may consider additional options in the future. On December 31, 2009, we paid a $.50 per share dividend to our shareholders, and a tender offer that we completed on May 14, 2010 resulted in our repurchase of 12,180,604 shares of our common stock for $85.3 million, in addition to our repurchase of $24.8 million in face amount of our 3.625% convertible senior notes due 2025 for $14.7 million. Further, in a tender offer completed in April 2011, we repurchased 13,125,000 shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $8.00 per share for an aggregate cost of $105.0 million. We have the ability to issue preferred shares, warrants, convertible debt and other securities without shareholder approval. Our common shares may be subordinate to classes of preferred shares issued in the future in the payment of dividends and other distributions made with respect to common shares, including distributions upon liquidation or dissolution. Our articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares without first obtaining shareholder approval. If we issued preferred shares, these additional securities may have dividend or liquidation preferences senior to the common shares. If we issue convertible preferred shares, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common shareholders’ interest. We have similar abilities to issue convertible debt, warrants and other equity securities. Our executive officers, directors and parties related to them, in the aggregate, control a majority of our voting stock and may have the ability to control matters requiring shareholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and parties related to them own a large enough stake in us to have an influence on, if not control of, the matters presented to shareholders. As a result, these shareholders may have the ability to control matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as any reclassification, reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the control of our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of us, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Note Regarding Risk Factors The risk factors presented above are all of the ones that we currently consider material. However, they are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, may also adversely affect us. There may be risks that a particular investor views differently from us, and our analysis might be wrong. If any of the risks that we face actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and could differ materially from any possible results suggested by any forward-looking statements that we have made or might make. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 