Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” -14- Table of Contents Wenhua Guo, our chairman and chief executive officer and 48.6% beneficial owner of our ordinary shares, has substantial influence over our company, and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Wenhua Guo, our chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owns 48.6% of our ordinary shares. As a result, he has significant influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a future change of control, which in turn could prevent our shareholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. In addition, on December 1, 2007, we transferred all our Duoyuan-related trademarks to Duoyuan Investments Limited, our majority shareholder, which is wholly owned by Mr. Guo. On September 17, 2008 and May 27, 2009, Duoyuan Investments Limited granted us an exclusive, royalty-free perpetual license to use these trademarks for our business, which license may terminate in certain instances. Mr. Guo’s refusal to allow us to use the Duoyuan name on reasonable terms or at all could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a future change of control, which in turn could prevent our shareholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and may materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Concurrent positions held by Wenhua Guo, our chairman and chief executive officer, with other businesses could impede his ability to devote sufficient time to our business and could pose conflicts of interest. Wenhua Guo serves as chairman of Duoyuan Printing, Inc., a public company. He is also the beneficial owner of 100% of the equity interest in our majority shareholder, Duoyuan Investments Limited, which owns a controlling interest in Duoyuan Printing, Inc. Through its subsidiaries in China, Duoyuan Printing, Inc. is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of offset printing equipment to the Chinese market. Mr. Guo devotes most of his business time to our affairs and the remainder of his business time to the affairs of these printing equipment-related companies. Mr. Guo’s decision-making responsibilities for these printing equipment-related companies are in the areas of public relations, management of human resources, risk management and strategic planning. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time. Additionally, even though Mr. Guo is accountable to us and our shareholders as a fiduciary, which requires that he exercise good faith and due care in handling our affairs, his existing responsibilities to other entities may limit the amount of time he can spend on our affairs. The termination and expiration or unavailability of preferential tax treatments once available to us may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Prior to January 1, 2008, entities established in China were generally subject to a 30% state and 3% local enterprise income tax rate. However, entities that satisfied certain conditions enjoyed preferential tax treatment. In accordance with PRC Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises, or FIE Income Tax Law, which was effective until December 31, 2007, both Duoyuan Beijing and Duoyuan Langfang enjoyed preferential income tax rates. See “Item 10. Additional Information —Taxation.” Effective January 1, 2008, the PRC National People’s Congress enacted the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the new EIT law. The new EIT law imposes a single uniform income tax rate of 25% on all Chinese enterprises, including foreign invested enterprises, and eliminates or modifies most of the tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatment available under the previous tax laws and regulations. The preferential tax treatment enjoyed by Duoyuan Beijing expired prior to the effective date of the new EIT law. As a result, Duoyuan Beijing is subject to the uniform income tax rate of 25%. The preferential tax treatment enjoyed by Duoyuan Langfang expired at the end of 2008. As a result, the tax rate applicable to Duoyuan Langfang increased from the rate of 12.5% to the uniform rate of 25% in 2009. The expiration and termination of such preferential tax treatment may have a material adverse effect on our operating results in 2009. Moreover, the preferential tax treatment Duoyuan Beijing enjoyed included a tax holiday for which only manufacturing enterprises were eligible. This tax holiday was approved by the relevant local state tax bureau. Although we believe Duoyuan Beijing was a qualified manufacturing enterprise, the definition of manufacturing enterprise is unclear and subject to discretionary interpretation and enforcement by the PRC authorities. If we are deemed not qualified for prior periods, we may be required to refund prior tax benefits received. -15- Table of Contents The newly enacted Chinese enterprise income tax law will affect tax exemptions on the dividends we receive and increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. We conduct substantially all of our business through our wholly owned Chinese subsidiaries and we derive all of our income from these subsidiaries. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends derived by foreign legal persons from business operations in China were not subject to the Chinese enterprise income tax. However, such tax exemption ceased after January 1, 2008 with the effectiveness of the new EIT law. The New EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “tax resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their global income. In addition, a recent circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese invested enterprises established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC enterprise shareholders. This recent circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the enterprise income tax, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, the recent circular mentioned above details that certain Chinese-invested enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises established outside of China that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for overseas incorporated enterprises that are controlled by individual PRC residents like us. Currently, there are no detailed rules or precedents governing the procedures and specific criteria for determining “de facto management bodies” which are applicable to our company. A substantial majority of the members of our management team are located in China. If our company is considered a PRC tax resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, our company will be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to our global income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the New EIT Law and the Implementing Rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempted income”, we can not assure you that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, dividends payable by us to our investors and gain on the sale of our shares may become subject to PRC withholding tax. As a result of such changes, our historical operating results will not be indicative of our operating results for future periods and the value of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be adversely affected. The contractual arrangements entered into between our Chinese subsidiaries or between us and one of our Chinese subsidiaries and those arrangements entered into between us or one of our Chinese subsidiaries and an entity affiliated with us may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities. A finding that we, Duoyuan Beijing or Duoyuan Langfang owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net earnings and the value of your investment. Under Chinese laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among affiliated parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities. The new EIT Law became effective on January 1, 2008 and provides authority for the PRC tax authority to make special adjustments to taxable income as well as new reporting requirements. In particular, an enterprise must submit its annual tax return together with information on related party transactions to the tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm’s length principles. In addition, the PRC tax authorities recently issued Implementation Measures for Special Tax Adjustments (Trial) which set forth tax-filing disclosure and contemporaneous documentation requirements, clarify the definition of “related party”, guide the selection and application of transfer pricing methods, and outline the due process procedures for transfer pricing investigation and assessment. We could face material and -16- Table of Contents adverse tax consequences if the Chinese tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our Chinese subsidiaries or between us and one of our Chinese subsidiaries or those arrangements entered into between us or one of our Chinese subsidiaries and an entity affiliated with us do not represent arm’s-length prices and as a result, adjust any of the income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions for Chinese tax purposes recorded by us or our Chinese subsidiaries or an increase in taxable income, all of which could increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the Chinese tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on us or our Chinese subsidiaries for under-paid taxes. We may be unable to ensure compliance with United States economic sanctions laws, especially when we sell our products to distributors over which we have limited control. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers certain laws and regulations that impose penalties upon U.S. persons and, in some instances, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, for conducting activities or transacting business with certain countries, governments, entities or individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions, or U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. We will not use any proceeds, directly or indirectly, from sales of our ADSs, to fund any activities or business with any country, government, entity or individual with respect to which U.S. persons or, as appropriate, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, are prohibited by U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws from conducting such activities or transacting such business. However, we sell our products through independent non-U.S. distributors which are responsible for interacting with the end users of our products. Although none of these independent non-U.S. distributors are located in or to our knowledge conduct business with countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions such as Cuba, Sudan, Iran, Syria and Myanmar, we may not be able to ensure that such non-U.S. distributors comply with any applicable U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws. As a result of the foregoing, actions could be taken against us that could materially and adversely affect our reputation and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. As a result of being a public company, we incur increased costs that may place a strain on our resources and our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs and is expected to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, requires that we file annual and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. Significant resources and management oversight have been dedicated to maintaining and improving the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These rules and regulations have made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have incurred substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. We are a public company in the United States that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a management’s assessment of their internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 20-F. Our 2009 annual report does not require a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public companies. Under current law, we will be required to -17- Table of Contents include a management report beginning with our annual report for the 2010 fiscal year. Beginning with the 2010 fiscal year, our independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to attest to the system of internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. We can provide no assurance that we will be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by SOX 404 or that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. In the course of preparing our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, several material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies have been identified. If we fail to achieve or maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud may be adversely affected. Prior to completion of our initial public offering in June 2009, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal control over financial reporting. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, several material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies have been identified, as defined in the standards established by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. There were no material weaknesses identified in our 2009 audit. Previously identified material weaknesses mainly related to: (1) failure to implement a month-end process to properly accrue expenditures at period-end and record purchases and sales following the closing of our books and proper review of these items; (2) an inability to timely identify disputed balances or unpaid aged balances of revenue and accounts receivable; (3) differences and errors in the recording of cost of revenue and inventory; (4) a lack of effective controls over the financial reporting process due to an insufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of U.S. GAAP commensurate with our financial reporting requirements; and (5) inadequate retention and maintenance of legal and accounting documents. The significant deficiencies identified in our 2009 audit primarily related to: (1) failure to record inventory balances at the time of delivery rather than after inspection; and (2) lack of appropriate segregation of duties and controls in the preparation and review of consolidated adjustments for reporting figures, financial statements and non-standard transactions under US GAAP. Previously observed significant deficiencies included: (1) sales tax rebates paid without corresponding official receipts; (2) errors in the classification of expenses; and (3) related party transactions not entered into on an arm’s-length basis. To remedy these weaknesses and deficiencies, we have adopted several measures to improve our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with SOX 404. Risks Related to Doing Business in China -18- Table of Contents Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, future actions or policies of the PRC government to control the pace of economic growth may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We are a holding company, and we conduct our business primarily through our operating subsidiaries incorporated in China. We and our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new Chinese laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the Chinese legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all but three of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these Chinese persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese officers, directors and subsidiaries. There is also uncertainty as to whether the courts in China would enforce judgments of United -19- Table of Contents States courts against us or our directors and officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any other state, or adjudicate an original action brought in China based upon the securities laws of the United States or any other state. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land-use-rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support China’s economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively and limit the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain financing. All of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under Chinese law, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our Chinese operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant Chinese government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by Chinese operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with Chinese government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our Chinese operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE and if the loans exceed certain borrowing limits, must be approved by SAFE. In addition, if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect our Chinese operating subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Failure to comply with Chinese regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by Chinese residents may subject our Chinese resident shareholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire Chinese companies or to inject capital into our Chinese subsidiaries, limit our Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies in October 2005, which became effective in November 2005, and an implementing rule in May 2007, collectively the SAFE Rules. According to the SAFE Rules, Chinese residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, who reside in China, are required to register with the SAFE or its local branch before establishing or controlling any company outside China, referred to in the SAFE Rules as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of financing that offshore company with their ownership interests in the assets of or their interests in any Chinese enterprise. In addition, a Chinese resident that is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with the injection of equity interests or assets of a Chinese enterprise in the offshore company or overseas fund raising by the offshore company, or any other material change in the capital of the offshore company, including any increase or decrease of capital, transfer or -20- Table of Contents swap of share, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. The registration and filing procedures under SAFE Rules are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investments or shareholder loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquidating distributions, equity sale proceeds, or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. The SAFE Rules retroactively required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by Chinese residents in offshore companies. If a Chinese shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the Chinese subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the Chinese subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under Chinese law for violation of the relevant rules relating to foreign exchange. Currently, our majority shareholder is Duoyuan Investments Limited, which is wholly owned by Wenhua Guo, our chairman and chief executive officer and a Chinese resident as defined in the SAFE Rules. Mr. Guo has registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with his interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our Chinese subsidiaries. Furthermore, as required by SAFE Rules, our 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan has been filed with the SAFE or its authorized branch. Mr. Guo has updated his SAFE registration to reflect the completion of our initial public offering in June 2009, his interest in Duoyuan Investments Limited and filing the 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan with the SAFE. We attempt to comply and attempt to ensure that each of our Chinese resident shareholders who is subject to the SAFE Rules and other related rules, complies with the relevant requirements of the SAFE Rules. However, we cannot provide any assurances that our Chinese resident shareholders will fully comply with all applicable registrations or approvals required by the SAFE Rules. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how the SAFE Rules will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether the SAFE Rules will apply to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE Rules by Mr. Guo or our other Chinese resident shareholders. In addition, such Chinese residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by the SAFE Rules. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. The failure or inability by Mr. Guo or our other Chinese resident shareholders to comply with the SAFE Rules, if SAFE requires it, may subject them to fines or other sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to our Chinese subsidiaries (including using our net proceeds from our February 2010 follow-on offering for these purposes), limit our Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us, repay shareholder loans or otherwise distribute profits or proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. Failure by our Chinese resident shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with SAFE filing requirements described above could result in liability to these shareholders or our Chinese subsidiaries under Chinese laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule also governs the approval process by which a foreign investor may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests of a Chinese company. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require the investors to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the new regulation, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our shareholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The new regulation allows Chinese government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets and in certain transaction structures, -21- Table of Contents require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of an acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulation may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms that satisfy our investors and protect our investors’ economic interests. On July 1, 2007, our wholly owned subsidiaries, Duoyuan Beijing and Duoyuan Langfang, each transferred their respective 50% equity interest in Huanan Duoyuan Water Supply Co. Ltd., or Duoyuan Huanan, to Duoyuan Asian Water Inc., another offshore company wholly owned by Wenhua Guo. We obtained the approval from the Heilongjiang provincial investment promotion bureau for this transaction. According to the New M&A Rule, this transaction might require the approval of the Ministry of Commerce. As the interpretation and implementation of the New M&A Rule are unclear, if the approval of Ministry of Commerce is required, the approval that Duoyuan Huanan has obtained may be deemed incomplete and the purchaser, namely Duoyuan Asian Water Inc., may need to obtain further approval from the Ministry of Commerce. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities if we or our Chinese employees or directors fail to comply with recent Chinese regulations relating to employee share options or shares granted by offshore special purpose companies or offshore listed companies to Chinese citizens. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and the corresponding Implementation Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007. Both of these regulations became effective on February 1, 2007. According to these regulations, all foreign exchange matters relating to employee stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans with PRC citizens’ participation require approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, Chinese citizens who are granted share options or shares by an offshore listed company are required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We are an offshore listed company and as a result we and our Chinese employees who have been granted share options or shares under our 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan are subject to the Stock Option Rule. We have filed with the SAFE and undertaken certain other procedures according to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines or other legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other Chinese government authorities. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our ADSs will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and the Renminbi and between those currencies and other currencies in which our revenue may be denominated. Because all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of our cash assets, as well as our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has not been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at -22- Table of Contents all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, we purchase a small percentage of our electronic components from suppliers who import these components. If the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary to fund cash and financing requirements, and limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our two wholly owned Chinese operating subsidiaries, Duoyuan Beijing and Duoyuan Langfang, for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If either of our operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant Chinese laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by each of our operating subsidiaries only out of its retained earnings after tax, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Under Chinese laws and regulations, each of our operating subsidiaries is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves, together with the registered equity, are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, the amount of these restricted portions was approximately RMB20.3 million, RMB36.4 million and RMB57.3 million ($8.4 million), respectively. As a result of these Chinese laws and regulations, each of our operating subsidiaries is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks that may disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu (swine flu) first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the U.S. and China. In the last decade, China has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face risks related to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China that may affect usage of public transportation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China. For example, in early 2008, parts of China suffered a wave of strong snow storms that severely impacted public transportation systems. In May 2008, Sichuan Province in China suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. The May 2008 Sichuan earthquake may have a material adverse effect on the general economic conditions in the areas affected by the earthquake. In July 2008, explosive devices were detonated on several buses in Kunming, Yunnan Province of China, which resulted in disruptions to public transportation systems in Kunming and casualties. Any future natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China could cause a reduction in usage of, or other severe disruptions to, public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. -23- Table of Contents 