Risk Factors. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Risks Related to our Business Changes in funding for public schools could cause the demand for our products to decrease. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from public schools, which are heavily dependent on federal, state and local government funding. Budget cuts, curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities or general reductions in funding could reduce or delay our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by schools, which have been exacerbated by the current economic downturn and state budget deficits (most state budget fiscal years end on June 30), could also cause those institutions to demand price reductions and could slow or reduce purchases of intervention products, which in turn could materially harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in educational funding at the federal, state or local level, resulting from changes in legislation, changes in state procurement processes, changes in government leadership, emergence of other funding or legislative priorities and changes in the condition of the local, state or U.S. economy. Some of our transaction opportunities have been related to ARRA stimulus funds available to our customers. Funds allocated by the ARRA will be spent by September 2011, this may hinder our ability to consummate certain transactions. We receive significant revenues from certain states and reductions in public school education spending in those states could cause the demand for our products to decrease. In 2010, we derived significant revenues from the following three states in the following approximate percentages: California — 14%; Florida — 8%; and Texas — 8%. To some extent, we expect the economic situation faced by these states to continue to have a depressive effect on public school spending. If that is the case, our sales to these states could be materially reduced which could harm our business and financial condition. Changes in school procurement policies may adversely affect our business. The school appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. School districts choose to procure educational materials in various ways which can change quickly necessitating a change in our sales strategy or sales investments. Districts and states may switch procurement decisions from a centralized (district-wide) to a decentralized (school by school) decision, states may switch from state-wide standard adoptions to flexible district level procurement, and customers could increasingly utilize competitive requests for proposals (RFP) or procurement via the Internet. Any of these changes could cause us to modify our sales strategy or cause us to expend greater sales effort to win business and if we are slow to respond the result could be a material loss of market share. Our failure to maintain or expand our customer base could diminish incremental revenues from certain products. We sell products that require customers to purchase certain replenishment materials year after year. Sales of these consumable items and replacement materials typically involve considerably less revenue than the initial sale. Furthermore, we provide products and services under arrangements that are terminable at will. Our ability to maintain and grow revenues and profitability will depend significantly upon the ability to maintain and grow our existing customer base and to acquire new customers. If we are not successful in continuing to acquire additional customers or maintaining our existing customers, our earnings may be adversely affected. Our revenue growth and profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain productive resellers. Historically, we have used resellers as a sales channel for certain products, primarily Kurzweil Educational Systems and Intellitools. Entities that resell our products may discontinue selling the products or choose to substitute a competing product, or they may not dedicate sufficient attention and resources to our products that they are selling. Should any of our current or future resellers perform below our expectations, or should we lose one or more relationships with one of our current resellers, or fail to establish relationships with additional or replacement resellers, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Our revenues and profitability will depend on our ability to continue to develop new products and services that appeal to customers and end users and respond to changing customer preferences. We operate in markets that are characterized by continuous and rapid change, including product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. In a period of rapid change, the technological and curriculum life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate. The demand for some of our more “mature” products and services has begun to migrate to other, newer products and services. As a result, we will need to continuously reassess our product and service offerings. We could make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable, or whose profitability may be significantly lower than what we have experienced historically. If we are unable to anticipate trends and develop new products or services responding to changing customer preferences, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to develop new products and invest in existing products in an appropriate balance to keep our company competitive in the marketplace. 12 Table of Contents Our business is anticipated to be seasonal and our operating results are anticipated to fluctuate seasonally. Our business is likely to be subject to seasonal fluctuations. We generally expect revenue and income from operations to be higher during the second and third calendar quarters. In addition, the quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and our quarterly results of operations can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to successfully attract and retain customers and our profitability could be materially harmed. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and is characterized by frequent product developments and enhancements of existing products. Several of our competitors have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than us as well as greater name recognition and larger customer bases. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer requirements, have more favorable access to suppliers and devote greater resources to the development and sale of their products and services. These competitors may be successful in developing products and services that are more effective or less costly than any products or services that we may provide currently or may develop in the future. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate, which may allow others to use our technologies and thereby reduce our ability to compete. The technology underlying our services and products may be vulnerable to attack by our competitors. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. The steps that we have taken in order to protect our proprietary technology may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to prevent third parties from developing similar technology independently. Technology content licensed from third parties may not continue to be available. We license from third parties technology content upon which we rely to deliver products and services to customers. This technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, we may face claims from persons who claim that our licensed technologies infringe upon or violate those persons’ proprietary rights. These types of claims, regardless of the outcome, may be costly to defend and may divert management’s efforts and resources. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and to pay substantial damages or restrict or prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If any of these claims are successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We also may be prohibited from selling our products or providing certain content without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional fees or royalties to the third party. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, is often expensive and may divert management attention away from other business concerns. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executives and management, as well as creative and technical personnel. Members of our senior management team have substantial industry experience that is critical to the execution of our business plan. If they or other key employees were to leave the Company, and we were unable to find qualified and affordable replacements for these individuals, our business could be harmed materially. Increases in operating costs and expenses, many of which are beyond our control, could materially and adversely affect our operating performance. We must control our costs and expenses to be profitable and to generate enough cash flow to service our indebtedness. Some of our costs are variable and subject to factors beyond our control; in particular, increases in paper, fuel, and employee compensation expenses could have a significant impact on our business. 13 Table of Contents Merger and acquisition activity could adversely affect our operations. We may seek potential acquisitions of products, technologies and businesses in the education industry that could complement or expand our current product and service offerings and businesses. In the event that we identify appropriate acquisition candidates, we may not be able to successfully negotiate, finance or integrate the acquired products, technologies or businesses. Furthermore, such an acquisition could cause a diversion of management’s time and resources. Any particular acquisition, if completed, may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We could experience system failures, software errors or capacity constraints, any of which would cause interruptions in the delivery of electronic content to customers and ultimately may cause us to lose customers. Any significant delays, disruptions or failures in the systems, or errors in the software, that we use for the technology-based component of our products, as well as for internal operations, could harm our business materially. We have occasionally suffered computer and telecommunication outages or related problems in the past. The growth of our customer base, as well as the number of websites we provide, could strain our systems in the future and will likely magnify the consequences of any computer and telecommunications problems that we may experience. However, destruction or disruption of data center sites could cause a system-wide failure. Although we maintain property insurance on these premises, claims for any system failure could exceed our coverage. In addition, our products could be affected by failures associated with third party hosting providers or by failures of third party technology used in our products, and we may have no control over remedying these failures. Our systems face security risks and we need to ensure the privacy of our customers. Our systems and websites may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Any security breaches or problems could lead to misappropriation of our customers’ information, our websites, our intellectual property and other rights, as well as disruption in the use of our systems and websites. Any security breach related to our websites could tarnish our reputation and expose us to damages and litigation. We also may incur significant costs to maintain our security precautions or to correct problems caused by security breaches. Furthermore, to maintain these security measures, we may be required to monitor our customers’ access to our websites, which may cause disruption to customers’ use of our systems and websites. These disruptions and interruptions could harm our business materially. We have a single distribution center and could experience significant disruption of business and ultimately lose customers in the event it was damaged, destroyed or experienced technological failure. We store and distribute the majority of our printed materials through a single warehouse in Frederick, Colorado. In the event that this distribution facility was damaged, destroyed or experienced technological failure, we would be delayed in responding to customer requests. Customers often purchase materials very close to the school year and such delivery delays could cause our customers to turn to competitors for products they need immediately. While we maintain adequate property insurance, the loss of customers could have a long-term, detrimental impact on our reputation and business. Failure to efficiently and effectively manage our direct marketing initiatives could negatively affect our business. The growth of several of our products depends on our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our direct marketing initiatives. We use various direct marketing strategies to market our products, including direct mailings, catalogs, online marketing, search engine optimization and telemarketing. In each case, we rely on a database containing information about our current and prospective customers to develop and implement direct marketing campaigns. We face the risk of unauthorized access to our customer database or the corruption of our database as a result of technology failure or otherwise. Failure to maintain, protect and properly utilize the available information in the database could lead to decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Both Cambium and VLCY have been subjected to material accounting irregularities in recent years, which could result in enhanced regulatory scrutiny in the future and could undermine the confidence that some investors may have in the integrity of our financial statements. During 2008, Cambium discovered certain irregularities relating to the control and use of cash and certain other general ledger items which revealed a substantial misappropriation of assets spanning fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2008. These irregularities were perpetrated by a former employee, resulting in embezzlement losses, before the effect of income taxes, amounting to $14.0 million. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. In early 2006, VLCY (then known as ProQuest Company) announced that it had identified potential material irregularities in its accounting that were to be investigated by VLCY’s audit committee, with the assistance of outside experts. In July 2006, VLCY announced that its audit committee had completed its investigation and issued a statement that detailed the key findings, including that the evidence indicated that a single individual was responsible for the misstatements. After completion of that investigation, VLCY restated certain of its previously filed financial statements. The fact that both Cambium and VLCY have experienced material accounting irregularities within the past seven years could result in enhanced regulatory scrutiny and could impair the confidence of investors, financing sources, research analysts and potential acquirers in the integrity of our financial statements. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Debt and Ownership of our Common Stock We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, debt reduction and expansion. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, restrictions imposed by applicable law, business and investment strategy, contractual limitations and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including the 9.75% senior secured notes (described below). As a result, our stockholders may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless they sell our common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their shares of the Company at or above the price they paid for them. Our majority stockholder has a contractual right to increase its percentage of ownership in our company which, if exercised, would dilute the ownership percentage of all other stockholders and could reduce the price of our common stock. Our majority stockholder, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC, the holding company through which VSS owns its interest in the Company, and funds managed or controlled by VSS, have the right to increase their percentage ownership of our company at a discount from market price. Under a stockholders agreement entered into in connection with the mergers, at any time and from time to time at or prior to December 8, 2011, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS have the right to purchase from us, in cash, at a 10% discount from market price, up to the lesser of 7,500,000 shares of our common stock or shares of our common stock with an aggregate purchase price of $20 million. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC also holds a warrant which was, or will become upon issuance, exercisable for up to 560,137 shares of our common stock at December 31, 2010 and may become exercisable for more shares in the future. If VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC decides to exercise its right to purchase shares of our common stock under the stockholders agreement or exercises its warrant, it could result in a reduction to the price of our common stock. The existence of a majority stockholder may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could delay, hinder or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and the board of directors, and our majority stockholder has a contractual right to maintain its percentage ownership in our company. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC, owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC will likely have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets. In addition, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC will likely have the ability to control our management, affairs and operations. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. The ownership of a large block of stock by a single stockholder may reduce our market liquidity. Should VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC determine to sell any of its position in the future, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock on the market, or even the possibility of these sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales, or even the possibility of these sales, also may make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate. Moreover, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC has a contractual right to maintain its percentage ownership in our company. Specifically, under the terms of a stockholders agreement entered into in connection with the mergers, if we were to engage in a new issuance of our securities, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would have preemptive rights to purchase an amount of our securities that would enable them to maintain their same collective percentage of ownership in our company following the new issuance. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would have these preemptive rights for so long as those entities collectively beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Thus, while other holders of our securities would risk suffering a reduction in percentage ownership in connection with a new issuance of securities by us, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would, through this preemptive right, have the opportunity to avoid a reduction in percentage ownership. 15 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from various corporate governance standards, which limits the presence of independent directors on our board of directors and board committees. Due to the fact that VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, we are deemed a “controlled company” for purposes of NASDAQ Rule 5615(c)(2). Under this rule, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and is exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including requirements that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, that compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and that director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We intend to rely upon these exemptions. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are required to comply fully with the NASDAQ rules. Since the “controlled company” exemption does not extend to the composition of audit committees, we are required to have an audit committee that consists of at least three directors, each of whom must be “independent” based on independence criteria set forth in Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Our board of directors has adopted an audit committee charter which will govern our audit committee. These three directors must also satisfy the requirements set forth in NASDAQ Rule 5605(a) and (c). The audit committee is currently composed entirely of independent directors. Certain attributes of our stock may make the stock less liquid. Certain attributes of our stock, including price, low trading volumes, and the existence of a majority stockholder, may make investments in our stock less liquid. These attributes could result in increased volatility in the price of our stock regardless of our performance, and could make it difficult to sell our shares in significant volumes at a favorable price. The liquidity of our stock could be further reduced if we repurchase shares. We may seek to raise additional funds, finance additional acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing additional securities, including capital stock. In the future, we may seek to raise additional funds, finance additional acquisitions or develop or engage in strategic relationships by issuing equity or debt securities. The issuance of equity securities, including debt securities that are convertible into equity, would reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any newly issued equity securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of new debt securities could also subject us to covenants which constrain our ability to grow or otherwise take steps that may be favored by our holders of common stock. Under the terms of a stockholders agreement that we entered into on December 8, 2009 in compliance with the mergers, so long as our former sole stockholder and funds controlled by VSS beneficially own in the aggregate at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, they will have preemptive rights which generally give them the opportunity to purchase an amount of our securities in a new issuance of securities by us that would enable them to maintain their same collective percentage ownership in us following the new issuance. Thus, while other stockholders risk suffering a reduction in percentage ownership in connection with an issuance of securities by us, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS will have the opportunity to avoid a reduction in percentage ownership. In addition, under the stockholders agreement, until December 8, 2011, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS will have the right to purchase from us, in cash, at a 10% discount from market price, up to the lesser of 7,500,000 shares of our common stock or shares of our common stock with a discounted purchase price of $20 million. Any purchases of stock at a discount from the market price may dilute the ownership percentage and equity ownership of all other stockholders. Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals for, our company. These include provisions that: • vest our board of directors with the sole power to set the number of directors of our company; • provide that our board of directors will be elected on a staggered term basis, so that generally only one-third of the board will be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders; • limit the persons that may call special meetings of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; and • limit stockholder action by written consent. 16 Table of Contents Also, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights and preferences of these shares, all without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to our common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock also could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. In addition, Delaware corporate law makes it difficult for stockholders that recently have acquired a large interest in a corporation to cause the merger or acquisition of the corporation against the directors’ wishes. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law (the “DGCL”), a Delaware corporation such as the Company may not engage in any merger or other business combination with an interested stockholder or such stockholder’s affiliates or associates for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, except in limited circumstances, including by approval of the corporation’s board of directors. We have a significant amount of senior secured debt and will have the obligation to make interest payments and comply with restrictions contained in the credit agreements with our senior secured lenders. In February 2011, we closed an offering of $175 million aggregate principal amount of 9.75% senior secured notes due 2017, as well as a new revolving credit facility. We are subject to risks associated with substantial indebtedness, including the risk that we will not be able to refinance existing indebtedness when it becomes due, the risk that we would not be able to secure alternative financing if we are unable to comply with the debt covenants or if we were to experience an event of default, and the risk that our cash flows from operations are insufficient to make scheduled interest payments. We are required to make interest payments semi-annually in arrears on each February 15 and August 15, commencing on August 15, 2011. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our debt. However, we may not be able to obtain any such new or additional financing on favorable terms or at all. The indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our new revolving credit facility contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; pay dividends and make other restricted payments; incur restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions from our restricted subsidiaries; create or incur certain liens; make certain investments; transfer or sell assets; enter into operating leases; engage in transactions with affiliates; and merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our or their assets. Further, upon the occurrence of specific types of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The source of funds for any such purchase of the notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our and our subsidiaries’ operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales or equity. Our failure to repurchase the notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture governing the notes and a cross default under our new revolving credit facility. Borrowing capacity under Cambium Learning, Inc.’s revolving credit facility may affect our ability to finance our operations. In February 2011, our wholly owned subsidiary, Cambium Learning, Inc. entered into a new asset-backed revolving credit facility, consisting of a four-year $40.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $5.0 million subfacility for swing line loans and a $5.0 million subfacility for letters of credit. Our ability to borrow funds under this facility is limited by a borrowing base determined relative to the value, calculated periodically, of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory. Our ability to borrow funds under the revolving credit facility is also conditioned upon our compliance with a financial covenant that generally requires us to maintain, on a consolidated basis, either (i) excess availability of at least the greater of $8 million and 15% of the revolver commitment or (ii) a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0. Our business is seasonal and any inability to borrow funds under the revolving credit facility could affect our ability to finance our operations. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 