Item 1A. Risk Factors. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Risks Related to our Business Changes in funding for public schools could cause the demand for our products to decrease. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from public schools, which are heavily dependent on federal, state and local government funding. In addition, the school appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. Budget cuts, curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities or general reductions in funding could reduce or delay our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by schools, which have been exacerbated by the current economic downturn and state budget deficits, could also cause those institutions to demand price reductions and could slow or reduce purchases of intervention products, which in turn could materially harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in educational funding at the federal, state or local level, resulting from changes in legislation, changes in state procurement processes, changes in government leadership, emergence of other funding or legislative priorities and changes in the condition of the local, state or U.S. economy. While state and federal funding for elementary and high school education has steadily increased over the long term, recent reductions in related appropriations and other declines in budgeted revenues in states that have traditionally purchased products and services have caused some school districts to reduce spending on the types of products and services that we sell, and both have been affected by these reductions. Moreover, future reductions in federal funding provided to the states or reductions in the state and local tax bases could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget shortfalls resulting in decreases in educational funding. Any decreased funding for public schools may harm our recurring and new business materially if our customers are not able to find and obtain alternative sources of funding. On March 13, 2010, the U.S. Department of Education released “A Blueprint for Reform: The Reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act.” The blueprint provides incentives for states to adopt academic standards that prepare students to succeed in college and the workplace and create accountability systems that measure student growth toward meeting the goal that all children graduate and succeed in college. The blueprint builds on the following key priorities: (1) college- and career-ready students; (2) great teachers and leaders in every school; (3) equity and opportunity for all students; (4) raise the bar and reward excellence; and (5) promote innovation and continuous improvement. This blueprint could provide a means for overhauling the No Child Left Behind Act, although we do not yet know how any legislation resulting from this blueprint will affect funding for our products and services. We receive significant sales from certain states and reductions in public school education spending in those states could cause the demand for our products to decrease. In 2009, VLCY and Cambium, on a combined basis, derived significant sales from the following three states in the following approximate percentages: California — 10%; Florida — 9%; and Texas — 12%. California and Florida experienced significant budget problems in 2009 as a result of the current economic downturn and have announced that they anticipate reductions in their 2010 spending for education relative to fiscal 2008/2009 levels. To the extent that the economic situation in any of these states causes reductions in public school spending, our sales to these states could be materially reduced which could harm our business and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We participate in state adoptions and sales may be materially reduced if we are not able to replace sales in years subsequent to the first year of adoption or if states elect to defer or eliminate adoption purchases. We participate in state-wide adoptions for education products, as well as intervention products when states issue specific adoption calls for intervention products. The cost of participating in such adoptions is high, with no guarantee of future sales. In addition, sales are traditionally high in the first year of adoption but decline in subsequent years, making it difficult to replace first year sales. After an adoption has occurred, states may elect to allow school districts to use adoption funds for alternative purposes other than the purposes stated in the initial adoption, as has occurred in Florida in 2009. Postponements of district-level adoptions could also limit market potential in other states. We may not be able to recover costs we incur for participating in adoptions and sales may be materially reduced if we are not able to replace sales in years subsequent to adoption years or if states elect to defer or eliminate adoption purchases. Changes in school procurement policies may adversely affect our business. School districts choose to procure educational materials in various ways which can change quickly necessitating a change in our sales strategy or sales investments. Districts and states may switch procurement decisions from a centralized (district-wide) to a decentralized (school by school) decision, states may switch from state-wide standard adoptions to flexible district level procurement, and customers could increasingly utilize competitive requests for proposals (RFP) or procurement via the Internet. Any of these changes could cause us to modify our sales strategy or cause us to expend greater sales effort to win business and if we are slow to respond the result could be a material loss of market share. Our failure to expand our customer base could diminish incremental revenues from certain products. We sell products that require customers to purchase certain replenishment materials year after year if they chose to continue serving the same number of students. Sales of these consumable items and replacement materials typically involve considerably less revenue than the initial sale. Therefore, our ability to maintain and grow sales and profitability will depend significantly upon the ability to acquire new customers or increase sales to existing customers. Acquiring new customers or expanding student use within existing customers could prove challenging as a result of competition from larger competitors, reductions in state and local funding, customer preferences and any requirement to provide enhancements to product capabilities. We may also be adversely affected by existing customers who reduce or discontinue use of our products and services, which may occur if our product offering is less competitive with those of our competitors, or as a result of budgetary constraints which have become increasingly acute in the current economic downturn. If we are not successful in continuing to acquire additional customers or expanding business from our existing customers, our earnings may be adversely affected. Our sales growth and profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain productive resellers. Historically, we have used resellers as a sales channel for certain products. Entities that resell our products may discontinue selling the products or choose to substitute a competing product, or they may not dedicate sufficient attention and resources to our products that they are selling. Should any of our current or future resellers perform below our expectations, or should we lose one or more relationships with one of our current resellers, or fail to establish relationships with additional or replacement resellers, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We may be unable to integrate successfully the businesses of Cambium and VLCY and realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers. The mergers of Cambium and VLCY involved the combination of two companies which, prior to the mergers, operated as independent companies. We have devoted and will continue to be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the businesses practices and operations of the two previously separate companies. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include, without limitation, the following: • the inability to successfully combine the businesses of Cambium and VLCY in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and revenue synergies anticipated to result from the mergers, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the mergers not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; • lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with us, including the risks associated with changing the customer relationship from one sales representative to another sales representative; 12 Table of Contents • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses; and • integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high-quality products and customer service. In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the diversion of management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, ongoing business of the combined company or inconsistencies in products, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees, or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the mergers, or could reduce the earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. The integration process may be difficult, unpredictable and subject to substantial delay because the businesses are complex, were developed independently and were designed without regard to such integration. Moreover, prior to the mergers, the businesses were headquartered in different geographical regions, which may further complicate integration efforts and make integration of the two companies more challenging. In some instances, Cambium and VLCY historically served the same customers, and some of these customers may decide that it is desirable to seek out additional or different vendors in order to ensure that we are competitive with other companies. If we cannot successfully integrate these businesses and continue to provide customers with products, services and new features on a timely basis, we may lose customers and our business and results of operations may be harmed materially. We also may incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of Cambium and VLCY. Our sales and profitability will depend on our ability to continue to develop new products and services that appeal to customers and end users and respond to changing customer preferences. We operate in markets that are characterized by continuous and rapid change, including product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. In a period of rapid change, the technological and curriculum life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate. The demand for some of our more “mature” products and services has begun to migrate to other, newer products and services. As a result, we will need to continuously reassess our product and service offerings. We could make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable, or whose profitability may be significantly lower than what we have experienced historically. If we are unable to anticipate trends and develop new products or services responding to changing customer preferences, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to develop new products and invest in existing products in an appropriate balance to keep our company competitive in the marketplace. Our business is anticipated to be seasonal and our operating results are anticipated to fluctuate seasonally. Our business is likely to be subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, revenue and income from operations have been higher during the second and third calendar quarters. In addition, the quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and our quarterly results of operations can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, as a result of many factors, including: • general economic trends; • state and local budgets for education; • the traditional cyclical nature of educational material sales; • school, library and consumer purchasing decisions; • unpredictable funding of schools and libraries by federal, state and local governments; • consumer preferences and spending trends; • the need to increase inventories in advance of the primary selling season; and • the timing of introductions of new products and services. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to successfully attract and retain customers and our profitability could be materially harmed. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and is characterized by frequent product developments and enhancements of existing products. We cannot assure you that products or services introduced by others will not adversely affect our business. Many companies, both privately and publicly owned, develop products and services similar to our products. These competitors include basal text book suppliers, which often offer intervention products as part of their core reading programs, supplemental suppliers, technology suppliers and service providers. Several of our competitors have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than us as well as greater name recognition and larger customer bases. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer requirements, have more favorable access to suppliers and devote greater resources to the development and sale of their products and services. These competitors may be successful in developing products and services that are more effective or less costly than any products or services that we may provide currently or may develop in the future. Any incursions by competitors could materially and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and thus may materially harm our business. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate, which may allow others to use our technologies and thereby reduce our ability to compete. The technology underlying our services and products may be vulnerable to attack by our competitors. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. The steps that we have taken in order to protect our proprietary technology may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to prevent third parties from developing similar technology independently. Technology content licensed from third parties may not continue to be available. We license from third parties technology content upon which we rely to deliver products and services to customers. This technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, we may face claims from persons who claim that our licensed technologies infringe upon or violate those persons’ proprietary rights. These types of claims, regardless of the outcome, may be costly to defend and may divert management’s efforts and resources. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and to pay substantial damages or restrict or prohibit us from selling our products. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If any of these claims are successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We also may be prohibited from selling our products or providing certain content without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional fees or royalties to the third party. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, is often expensive and may divert management attention away from other business concerns. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executives and management, as well as creative and technical personnel. Members of our senior management team have substantial industry experience that is critical to the execution of our business plan. If they or other key employees were to leave the Company, and we were unable to find qualified and affordable replacements for these individuals, our business could be harmed materially. Our customer contracts are not likely to insulate us from potential reductions in revenues. We provide products and services to several governmental agencies, school districts and educational facilities under contractual arrangements that, in most cases, are terminable at-will. We may have no recourse in the event of a customer’s cancellation of a contract that is terminable at-will. In addition, contracts awarded pursuant to a procurement process are subject to challenge by competitors and other parties during and after that process. The termination or successful challenge of significant contracts could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Increases in operating costs and expenses, many of which are beyond our control, could materially and adversely affect our operating performance. We must control our employee compensation expenses and our printing, paper and distribution (such as postage, shipping and fuel) costs in order to be profitable. Our ability to control compensation expenses is limited by our need to offer our employees competitive salaries and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality of employees required to grow and expand our business. Our ability to control compensation expenses is also limited by general economic factors, including those affecting costs of health insurance, as well as by trends specific to the employee skills that we require. Paper prices fluctuate based on worldwide demand and supply for paper, in general, as well as for the specific types of paper we use. If there is a significant disruption in the supply of paper or a significant increase in paper costs, which would generally be beyond our control, or if our strategies to manage these costs are ineffective, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Acquisitions, if completed, could adversely affect our operations. We may seek potential acquisitions of products, technologies and businesses in the education industry that could complement or expand our current product and service offerings and businesses. In the event that we identify appropriate acquisition candidates, we may not be able to successfully negotiate, finance or integrate the acquired products, technologies or businesses. Furthermore, such an acquisition could cause a diversion of management’s time and resources. Any particular acquisition, if completed, may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The failure to manage growth properly could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The educational products industry is a fragmented industry. If this industry becomes more concentrated over time, it will be important for us to grow and to manage our growth effectively. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to expand our management team and assure that our systems and controls are designed to support this growth. Any measurable growth in business will result in additional demands on customer support, sales, marketing, administrative and technical resources, and upon our related systems and controls. We may not be able to successfully address these additional demands, and our operating and financial control systems may not be adequate to support our future operations and anticipated growth. We use the Internet extensively, and federal or state governments may adopt laws or regulations that could expose us to substantial liability and/or taxation in connection with these activities. As a result of increasing usage of the Internet, federal and state governments may adopt laws or regulations regarding commercial online services, the Internet, user privacy, intellectual property rights, content and taxation of online communications. Laws and regulations directly applicable to online commerce or Internet communications are becoming more prevalent and could expose us to substantial liability. Furthermore, various proposals at the federal, state and local levels could impose additional taxes on Internet sales. These laws, regulations and proposals could decrease Internet commerce and other Internet uses and adversely affect the success of our online products and business. We could experience system failures, software errors or capacity constraints, any of which would cause interruptions in the delivery of electronic content to customers and ultimately may cause us to lose customers. Any significant delays, disruptions or failures in the systems, or errors in the software, that we use for the technology-based component of our products, as well as for internal operations, could harm our business materially. We have occasionally suffered computer and telecommunication outages or related problems in the past. The growth of our customer base, as well as the number of websites we provide, could strain our systems in the future and will likely magnify the consequences of any computer and telecommunications problems that we may experience. Many of the systems that we use to deliver our services to customers are located in multiple facilities across several states. However, destruction or disruption at a single site can cause a system-wide failure. Although we maintain property insurance on these premises, claims for any system failure could exceed our coverage. In addition, our products could be affected by failures associated with third party hosting providers or by failures of third party technology used in our products, and we may have no control over remedying these failures. Any failures or problems with our systems or software could force us to incur significant costs to remedy the failure or problem, decrease customer demand for our products, tarnish our reputation and harm our business materially. 15 Table of Contents Our systems face security risks and we need to ensure the privacy of our customers. Our systems and websites may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Any security breaches or problems could lead to misappropriation of our customers’ information, our websites, our intellectual property and other rights, as well as disruption in the use of our systems and websites. Any security breach related to our websites could tarnish our reputation and expose us to damages and litigation. We also may incur significant costs to maintain our security precautions or to correct problems caused by security breaches. Furthermore, to maintain these security measures, we may be required to monitor our customers’ access to our websites, which may cause disruption to customers’ use of our systems and websites. These disruptions and interruptions could harm our business materially. We have a single distribution center and could experience significant disruption of business and ultimately lose customers in the event it was damaged or destroyed. In the first quarter of 2010, we completed the integration of VLCY’s Dallas, Texas distribution facility into Cambium’s distribution facility in Frederick, Colorado. As a result, we store and distribute the majority of our printed materials through this single warehouse in Frederick, Colorado. In the event that this distribution facility was damaged or destroyed, we would be delayed in responding to customer requests. Customers often purchase materials very close to the school year and such delivery delays could cause our customers to turn to competitors for products they need immediately. While we maintain adequate property insurance, the loss of customers could have a long-term, detrimental impact on our reputation and business. The complexity of our distribution operations may subject us to technological risk. Our distribution center is highly automated, which means that their operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions and other system failures. Risks associated with upgrading or expanding the warehouse may significantly disrupt or increase the cost of operating this center. Our business may not grow as anticipated if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to attracting and retaining customers. Our success in growing brand awareness will depend in part on our ability to continually provide high quality programs and solutions that enhance the learning process. Competitors may offer goods and services similar to those offered by us, which may diminish the value of our brand. In addition, some of our brand names are new, or have changed or may be changed, and we may not successfully maintain and grow the brand equity. Failure to efficiently manage our direct marketing initiatives could negatively affect our business. We use various direct marketing strategies to market our products, including direct mailings, catalogs, online marketing and telemarketing. In each case, we rely on our customer list, which is a database containing information about our current and prospective customers. We use this database to develop and implement our direct marketing campaigns. Managing the frequency of our direct marketing campaigns and delivering appropriately tailored products in these campaigns is crucial to maintaining and increasing our customer base and achieving adequate results from our direct marketing efforts. We also face the risk of unauthorized access to our customer database or the corruption of our database as a result of technology failure or otherwise. Enhancing and refreshing the database, maintaining the ability to use the information available from the database, and properly using the available information is vital to the success of our business, and our failure to do so could lead to decreased sales and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Both Cambium and VLCY have been subjected to material accounting irregularities in recent years, which could result in enhanced regulatory scrutiny in the future and could undermine the confidence that some investors may have in the integrity of our financial statements. During 2008, Cambium discovered certain irregularities relating to the control and use of cash and certain other general ledger items which revealed a substantial misappropriation of assets spanning fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2008. These irregularities were perpetrated by a former employee, resulting in embezzlement losses, before the effect of income taxes, amounting to $14.0 million. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.” In early 2006, VLCY (then known as ProQuest Company) announced that it had identified potential material irregularities in its accounting that were to be investigated by VLCY’s audit committee, with the assistance of outside experts. In July 2006, VLCY announced that its audit committee had completed its investigation and issued a statement that detailed the key findings, including that the evidence indicated that a single individual was responsible for the misstatements. After completion of that investigation, VLCY restated certain of its previously filed financial statements. The fact that both Cambium and VLCY have experienced material accounting irregularities within the past six years could result in enhanced regulatory scrutiny and could impair the confidence of investors, financing sources, research analysts and potential acquirers in the integrity of our financial statements. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock An active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop. Prior to the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market in December 2009, there has been no public market for our securities in the United States or elsewhere. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or be sustained or that the market price of our common stock will not decline. The price at which our common stock has traded has been highly volatile. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of its listed companies. Moreover, only a limited number of our shares are traded each day, which could increase the volatility of the price of our stock. These market fluctuations might cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. The market price of our common stock might fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations; • changes in securities analysts’ expectations; • variations in our operating results, which could cause us to fail to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations; • announcements by state governments regarding spending on educational programs; • announcements by our competitors or us of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • conditions and trends in our industry; • general market, economic, industry and political conditions; • changes in market values of comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; and • future sales of equity or debt securities, including sales which dilute existing investors. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, debt reduction and expansion. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, restrictions imposed by applicable law, business and investment strategy, contractual limitations and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including the Cambium Learning senior secured credit agreement and the Cambium Learning senior unsecured credit agreement. As a result, our stockholders may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless they sell our common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their shares of the Company at or above the price they paid for them. 17 Table of Contents Our majority stockholder has a contractual right to increase its percentage of ownership in our company which, if exercised, would dilute the ownership percentage of all other stockholders and could reduce the price of our common stock. Our majority stockholder, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC, the holding company through which VSS owns its interest in the company, and funds managed or controlled by VSS, have the right to increase their percentage ownership of our company at a discount from market price. Under a stockholders agreement entered into in connection with the mergers, at any time and from time to time at or prior to December 8, 2011, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS have the right to purchase from us, in cash, at a 10% discount from market price, up to the lesser of 7,500,000 shares of our common stock or shares of our common stock with an aggregate purchase price of $20 million. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC also holds a warrant which was exercisable for up to 526,834 shares of our common stock at December 31, 2009 and may become exercisable for more shares in the future. If VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC decides to exercise its right to purchase shares of our common stock under the stockholders agreement or exercises its warrant, it could result in a reduction to the price of our common stock. The existence of a majority stockholder may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could delay, hinder or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and the board of directors, and our majority stockholder has a contractual right to maintain its percentage ownership in our company. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC, owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC will likely have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets. In addition, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC will likely have the ability to control our management, affairs and operations. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. The ownership of a large block of stock by a single stockholder may reduce our market liquidity. Should VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC determine to sell any of its position in the future, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock on the market, or even the possibility of these sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales, or even the possibility of these sales, also may make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price it deems appropriate. Moreover, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC has a contractual right to maintain its percentage ownership in our company. Specifically, under the terms of a stockholders agreement entered into in connection with the mergers, if we were to engage in a new issuance of our securities, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would have preemptive rights to purchase an amount of our securities that would enable them to maintain their same collective percentage of ownership in our company following the new issuance. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would have these preemptive rights for so long as those entities collectively beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Thus, while other holders of our securities would risk suffering a reduction in percentage ownership in connection with a new issuance of securities by us, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would, through this preemptive right, have the opportunity to avoid a reduction in percentage ownership. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from various corporate governance standards, which limits the presence of independent directors on our board of directors and board committees. Due to the fact that VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, we are deemed a “controlled company” for purposes of NASDAQ Rule 5615(c)(2). Under this rule, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and is exempt from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including requirements that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, that compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and that director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We intend to rely upon these exemptions. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are required to comply fully with the NASDAQ rules. 18 Table of Contents Since the “controlled company” exemption does not extend to the composition of audit committees, we are required to have an audit committee that consists of at least three directors, each of whom must be “independent” based on independence criteria set forth in Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Our board of directors has adopted an audit committee charter which will govern our audit committee. These three directors must also satisfy the requirements set forth in NASDAQ Rule 5605(a) and (c). The audit committee is currently composed entirely of independent directors. Cambium Learning has a significant amount of senior secured and senior unsecured debt and will have the obligation to make principal and interest payments on that debt, and to comply with restrictions contained in credit agreements with our senior secured and senior unsecured lenders. Cambium Learning has an aggregate of $156.8 million of outstanding senior secured and senior unsecured debt as of December 31, 2009, consisting of $97.2 million under senior secured term loans, $54.6 million under senior unsecured notes, and $5.0 million drawn under a revolving credit facility. The amount of leverage could have important consequences for holders of our securities, including: • a substantial portion of the cash provided from operations will be committed to the payment of our debt service and will not be available for other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; and • the level of indebtedness of our combined company may limit our flexibility in reacting to changes in our business environment. Our senior secured and senior unsecured term loan facilities mature on April 11, 2013 and April 11, 2014, respectively, and must be either repaid, refinanced or extended on those respective dates. We may not be able to extend the debt at that time (or prior thereto in the case of acceleration) and equity or debt financing may not be available to replace some or all of the maturing debt on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure of the original Cambium Learning investors to own at least 35% of our common stock or the sale by the VSS funds of more than 15% of their common stock would constitute an event of default under the Cambium Learning credit agreements, entitling the lenders to accelerate the repayment of all outstanding indebtedness. Cambium Learning’s senior secured and senior unsecured credit agreements contain various restrictions on changes in the direct or indirect ownership or control of Cambium Learning. These restrictions are embodied in the credit agreements’ “Change in Control” definition and under their “Events of Default” provisions. In addition to customary ownership and control changes, a “Change in Control” would occur if at least 35% of our common stock were not owned by at least one of the original investors in Cambium Learning or if the VSS funds sold more than 15% of our common stock owned by them (through VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC). As of December 31, 2009, the original Cambium Learning investors, through VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC, own approximately 55% of our common stock. Future issuances of common or other capital stock by us could dilute the original Cambium Learning investors’ ownership percentage below the requisite 35% amount. However, the investment funds controlled by VSS, which are among the original Cambium Learning investors, have the contractual right (but not the obligation) to subscribe for additional shares of our common stock in order to maintain their ownership level and thereby prevent unwanted dilution. This contractual right requires these investment funds to pay consideration to acquire any such additional shares. We cannot assure you that these funds will at any time elect to exercise their subscription right or will have the funds to do so. The occurrence of a “Change in Control” would constitute an “Event of Default” under the credit agreements. Either the administrative agent or a majority of the lenders have the right, upon the occurrence of an “Event of Default,” to terminate all commitments to make revolving loans, and to accelerate all outstanding revolving and term loans by declaring them immediately due and payable. Neither we nor Cambium Learning is expected to have sufficient cash on hand to repay these loans in full upon such an acceleration. We may seek to raise additional funds, finance additional acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing additional securities, including capital stock. In the future, we may seek to raise additional funds, finance additional acquisitions or develop or engage in strategic relationships by issuing equity or debt securities. The issuance of equity securities, including debt securities that are convertible into equity, would reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any newly issued equity securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of new debt securities could also subject us to covenants which constrain our ability to grow or otherwise take steps that may be favored by our holders of common stock. Under the terms of a stockholders agreement that we entered into on December 8, 2009 in compliance with the mergers, so long as our sole stockholder and funds controlled by VSS beneficially own in the aggregate at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, they will have preemptive rights which generally give them the opportunity to purchase an amount of our securities in a new issuance of securities by us that would enable them to maintain their same collective percentage ownership in us following the new issuance. Thus, while other stockholders risk suffering a reduction in percentage ownership in connection with an issuance of securities by us, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS will have the opportunity to avoid a reduction in percentage ownership. In addition, under the stockholders agreement, until December 8, 2011, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS will have the right to purchase from us, in cash, at a 10% discount from market price, up to the lesser of 7,500,000 shares of our common stock or shares of our common stock with a discounted purchase price of $20 million. Any purchases of stock at a discount from the market price may dilute the ownership percentage and equity ownership of all other stockholders. Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals for, our company. These include provisions that: • vest our board of directors with the sole power to set the number of directors of our company; 19 Table of Contents • provide that our board of directors will be elected on a staggered term basis, so that generally only one-third of the board will be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders; • limit the persons that may call special meetings of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; and • limit stockholder action by written consent. Also, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights and preferences of these shares, all without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to our common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock also could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. In addition, Delaware corporate law makes it difficult for stockholders that recently have acquired a large interest in a corporation to cause the merger or acquisition of the corporation against the directors’ wishes. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law (the “DGCL”), a Delaware corporation such as the Company may not engage in any merger or other business combination with an interested stockholder or such stockholder’s affiliates or associates for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, except in limited circumstances, including by approval of the corporation’s board of directors. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, the stock price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management will be required to certify to and report on, and our auditors will be required to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Our management was not required to perform an assessment of internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Our management expects to complete an assessment and certification on, and for our auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. Compliance with regulatory requirements relating to internal controls is expensive and may cause us to focus a significant amount of management time and other internal resources on these matters. We also may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the attestation process by our auditors, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any identified improvements or receiving a favorable attestation. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 