Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS Our businesses are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other SEC filings could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. GENERAL Federal and state environmental regulation could require us to incur substantial capital expenditures and increased operating costs. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and health safety. These laws and regulations regulate the modification and operation of existing facilities, the construction and operation of new facilities and the proper storage, handling, cleanup and disposal of hazardous waste and toxic substances. Compliance with these legal requirements requires us to commit significant resources and funds toward environmental monitoring, installation and operation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees and securing environmental permits. Obtaining environmental permits can entail significant expense and cause substantial construction delays. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, may result in civil or criminal liabilities, penalties and fines. Existing environmental laws or regulations may be revised and new laws or regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us. Revised or additional regulations, which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from customers, could have a material effect on our results of operations. Volatile financial markets and changes in our debt ratings could restrict our ability to access capital and increase borrowing costs and pension plan and postretirement health care expenses. We rely on access to both short- and long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. If we are unable to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. Market disruptions or a downgrade of our credit ratings may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets can also adversely impact our results of operations, the ability of customers to finance purchases of goods and services, and our financial condition, as well as exert downward pressure on stock prices and/or limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level. Changes in the U.S. capital markets could also have significant effects on our pension plan. Our pension income or expense is affected by factors including the market performance of the assets in the master pension trust maintained for the pension plan for some of our employees, the weighted average asset allocation and long-term rate of return of our pension plan assets, the discount rate used to determine the service and interest cost components of our net periodic pension cost and assumed rates of increase in our employees’ future compensation. If our pension plan assets do not achieve positive rates of return, or if our estimates and assumed rates are not accurate, our earnings may decrease because net periodic pension costs would rise and we could be required to provide additional funds to cover our obligations to employees under the pension plan. We made a $20.0 million discretionary contribution to our defined benefit pension plan in 2010. We could be required to contribute additional capital to the pension plan in future years if the market value of pension plan assets significantly declines in the future, plan assets do not earn in line with our long-term rate of return assumptions or relief under the Pension Protection Act is no longer granted. Any significant impairment of our goodwill would cause a decrease in our asset values and a reduction in our net operating performance. We had approximately $94.1 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. We have recorded goodwill for businesses in each of our business segments except Electric. If we make changes in our business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect operations in any of these businesses, we may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to decreased assets and a reduction in net operating performance. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between 32 the carrying amount of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, future business operating performance, changes in competition or changes in technologies. Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with key assumptions, about our business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value of one or more business segments, which may result in an impairment charge. A sustained decline in our common stock price below book value or declines in projected operating cash flows at any of our operating companies may result in goodwill impairments that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, as well as financing agreement covenants. The inability of our subsidiaries to provide sufficient earnings and cash flows to allow us to meet our financial obligations and debt covenants and pay dividends to our shareholders could have an adverse effect on the Company. Otter Tail Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. The primary source of funds for payment of our financial obligations and dividends to our shareholders is from cash provided by our subsidiary companies. Our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock principally depends on the actual and projected earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial position of our subsidiary companies, as well as regulatory factors, financial covenants, general business conditions and other matters. Under our $200 million revolving credit agreement we may not permit the ratio of our Interest-bearing Debt to Total Capitalization to be greater than 0.60 to 1.00. While this restriction is not expected to affect our ability to pay dividends at the current level in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance that adverse financial results would not reduce or eliminate our ability to pay dividends. Our dividend payout ratio has exceeded 100% of our earnings in each of the last three years. Economic conditions could negatively impact our businesses. Our businesses are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. Tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of customers to finance purchases of our goods and services, resulting in decreased orders, cancelled or deferred orders, slower payment cycles, and increased bad debt and customer bankruptcies. Our businesses may also be adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending. A decline in the level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy and commodity prices could adversely affect our results of operations and our future growth. If we are unable to achieve the organic growth we expect, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We expect much of our growth in the next few years will come from major capital investment at existing companies. To achieve the organic growth we expect, we will have to have access to the capital markets, be successful with capital expansion programs related to organic growth, develop new products and services, expand our markets and increase efficiencies in our businesses. Competitive and economic factors could adversely affect our ability to do this. If we are unable to achieve and sustain consistent organic growth, we will be less likely to meet our revenue growth targets, which, together with any resulting impact on our net income growth, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our plans to grow and diversify through acquisitions may not be successful, which could result in poor financial performance. As part of our business strategy, we intend to acquire new businesses. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate acquisitions. If we are unable to make acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the growth we anticipate. Future acquisitions could involve numerous risks including: difficulties in integrating the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired business; and the potential loss of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks of an acquisition, we could face reductions in net income in future periods. Our plans to acquire additional business and to grow and operate our nonelectric businesses could be limited by state law. Our plans to acquire additional business and to grow and operate our nonelectric businesses could be adversely affected by legislation in one or more states that may attempt to limit the amount of diversification permitted in a holding company structure that includes a regulated utility company or affiliated nonelectric companies. 33 We enter into production and construction contracts, including contracts for new product designs, which could expose us to unforeseen costs and costs not within our control, which may not be recoverable and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. DMI, ShoreMaster and our construction companies frequently provide products and services pursuant to fixed-price contracts. Revenues recognized on jobs in progress under fixed-price contracts were $491 million at December 31, 2010 and $460 million at December 31, 2009. Under those contracts, we agree to perform the contract for a fixed price and, as a result, can improve our expected profit by superior contract performance, productivity, worker safety and other factors resulting in cost savings. However, we could incur cost overruns above the approved contract price, which may not be recoverable. Fixed-price contract prices are established based largely on estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications, personnel and material needs. These estimates and assumptions may prove inaccurate or conditions may change due to factors out of our control, resulting in cost overruns, which we may be required to absorb and that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. In addition, our profits from these contracts could decrease and we could experience losses if we incur difficulties in performing the contracts or are unable to secure fixed-pricing commitments from our manufacturers, suppliers and subcontractors at the time we enter into fixed-price contracts with our customers. We are subject to risks associated with energy markets. Our businesses are subject to the risks associated with energy markets, including market supply and increasing energy prices. If we are faced with shortages in market supply, we may be unable to fulfill our contractual obligations to our retail, wholesale and other customers at previously anticipated costs. This could force us to obtain alternative energy or fuel supplies at higher costs or suffer increased liability for unfulfilled contractual obligations. Any significantly higher than expected energy or fuel costs would negatively affect our financial performance. We are subject to risks and uncertainties related to the timing of recovery of deferred tax assets which could have a negative impact on our net income in future periods. If taxable income is not generated in future periods in certain tax jurisdictions the recovery of deferred taxes related to accumulated tax benefits may be delayed and we may be required to record a reserve related to the uncertainty of the timing of recovery of deferred tax assets related to accumulated taxable losses in those tax jurisdictions. This would have a negative impact on the Company’s net income in the period the reserve is recorded. Certain of our operating companies sell products to consumers that could be subject to recall. Certain of our operating companies sell products to consumers that could be subject to recall due to product defect or other safety concerns. If such a recall were to occur, it could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. ELECTRIC We may experience fluctuations in revenues and expenses related to our electric operations, which may cause our financial results to fluctuate and could impair our ability to make distributions to shareholders or scheduled payments on our debt obligations. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and expenses from electric operations, causing our net income to fluctuate from period to period. These risks include fluctuations in the volume and price of sales of electricity to customers or other utilities, which may be affected by factors such as mergers and acquisitions of other utilities, geographic location of other utilities, transmission costs (including increased costs related to operations of regional transmission organizations), changes in the manner in which wholesale power is sold and purchased, unplanned interruptions at OTP’s generating plants, the effects of regulation and legislation, demographic changes in OTP’s customer base and changes in OTP’s customer demand or load growth. Electric wholesale margins have been significantly and adversely affected by increased efficiencies in the MISO market. Electric wholesale trading margins could also be adversely affected by losses due to trading activities. Other risks include weather conditions or changes in weather patterns (including severe weather that could result in damage to OTP’s assets), fuel and purchased power costs and the rate of economic growth or decline in OTP’s service areas. A decrease in revenues or an increase in expenses related to our electric operations may reduce the amount of funds available for our existing and future businesses, which could result in increased financing requirements, impair our ability to make expected distributions to shareholders or impair our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations. 34 In September 2009, OTP announced its withdrawal as a participating utility and the lead developer for the planned construction of a second electric generating unit at its Big Stone Plant site. As of December 31, 2010 OTP had $7.9 million in incurred costs related to the project that have not been approved for recovery and has deferred recognition of these costs as operating expenses pending determination of recoverability by the state and federal regulatory commissions that approve its rates. If OTP is denied recovery of all or any portion of these deferred costs, such costs would be subject to expense in the period they are deemed to be unrecoverable. Additionally, if OTP is unable to find alternatives to the project to meet generation needs, it may be forced to purchase power in order to meet customer needs. There is no guarantee that in such a case OTP would be able to obtain sufficient supplies of power at reasonable costs. If OTP is forced to pay higher than normal prices for power, the increase in costs could reduce our earnings if OTP is not able to recover the increased costs from its electric customers through the fuel clause adjustment. Actions by the regulators of our electric operations could result in rate reductions, lower revenues and earnings or delays in recovering capital expenditures. We are subject to federal and state legislation, government regulations and regulatory actions that may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. The electric rates that OTP is allowed to charge for its electric services are one of the most important items influencing our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The rates that OTP charges its electric customers are subject to review and determination by state public utility commissions in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota. OTP is also regulated by the FERC. An adverse decision by one or more regulatory commissions concerning the level or method of determining electric utility rates, the authorized returns on equity, implementation of enforceable federal reliability standards or other regulatory matters, permitted business activities (such as ownership or operation of nonelectric businesses) or any prolonged delay in rendering a decision in a rate or other proceeding (including with respect to the recovery of capital expenditures in rates) could result in lower revenues and net income. OTP could be required to absorb a disproportionate share of costs for investments in transmission infrastructure required to provide independent power producers access to the transmission grid. These costs may not be recoverable through a transmission tariff and could result in reduced returns on invested capital and/or increased rates to OTP’s retail electric customers. OTP’s electric generating facilities are subject to operational risks that could result in unscheduled plant outages, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses and increased power purchase costs. Operation of electric generating facilities involves risks which can adversely affect energy output and efficiency levels. Most of OTP’s generating capacity is coal-fired. OTP relies on a limited number of suppliers of coal, making it vulnerable to increased prices for fuel as existing contracts expire or in the event of unanticipated interruptions in fuel supply. OTP is a captive rail shipper of the BNSF Railway for shipments of coal to its Big Stone and Hoot Lake plants, making it vulnerable to increased prices for coal transportation from a sole supplier. Higher fuel prices result in higher electric rates for OTP’s retail customers through fuel clause adjustments and could make it less competitive in wholesale electric markets. Operational risks also include facility shutdowns due to breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, labor disputes, operator error and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, intentional acts of destruction or other similar occurrences affecting OTP’s electric generating facilities. The loss of a major generating facility would require OTP to find other sources of supply, if available, and expose it to higher purchased power costs. Changes to regulation of generating plant emissions, including but not limited to CO2 emissions, could affect our operating costs and the costs of supplying electricity to our customers. Existing or new laws or regulations passed or issued by federal or state authorities addressing climate change or reductions of greenhouse gas emissions, such as mandated levels of renewable generation, mandatory reductions in CO2 emission levels, taxes on CO2 emissions or cap and trade regimes, could require us to incur significant new costs, which could negatively impact our net income, financial position and operating cash flows if such costs cannot be recovered through rates granted by ratemaking authorities in the states where OTP provides service or through increased market prices for electricity. Debate continues in Congress on the direction and scope of U.S. policy on climate change and regulation of GHGs. Congress has considered but has not adopted GHG legislation which would require a reduction in GHG emissions and there is no legislation under active consideration at this time. The likelihood of any federal mandatory CO2 emissions reduction program being adopted by Congress in the near future, and the specific requirements of any such program, are uncertain. The EPA has begun to regulate GHG gas emissions under its “endangerment” finding. The EPA has adopted its first GHG emission control rules for motor vehicles and new source review of stationary sources of GHGs, which became applicable to motor vehicles and stationary sources, respectively, on January 2, 2011. The EPA plans to adopt standards of performance for emissions from power plants and refineries by mid-2012. Specific requirements of regulation under the CAA’s various programs, and thus their impact on OTP, are uncertain at this time. 35 WIND ENERGY Competition from foreign and domestic manufacturers, cost management in a fixed price contract project environment, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and general economic conditions could affect the revenues and earnings of our Wind Energy segment. Our Wind Energy segment is subject to risks associated with competition from foreign and domestic manufacturers, some of whom have greater distribution capabilities, greater capital resources and other capabilities that may place downward pressure on margins and profitability. Our wind tower manufacturer operates in a fixed price project environment where balancing workload to costs can create variation in margins that may not be recoverable from customers. Diesel fuel is a major expense for our trucking company. Diesel fuel prices are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in oil prices and domestic and world-wide production levels and capacity. If the companies in our Wind Energy segment are not able to recover cost increases from their customers, it could have a negative effect on profit margins and income from our Wind Energy segment. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a negative impact on the net income and competitive position of our wind tower manufacturing operations in Ft. Erie, Ontario because the plant pays its operating expenses in Canadian dollars. The U.S. wind industry is reliant on tax and other economic incentives and political and governmental policies. A significant change in these incentives and policies could negatively impact our results of operations and growth. Our wind tower manufacturing business is focused on supplying towers to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities. The wind industry is dependent on federal tax incentives and state renewable portfolio standards and may not be economically viable absent such incentives. The federal government provides economic incentives to the owners of wind energy facilities, including a federal production tax credit, an investment tax credit and a cash grant equal in value to the investment tax credit. These programs provide material incentives to develop wind energy generation facilities and thereby impact the demand for our manufactured products and services. The failure of Congress to extend or renew these incentives beyond their current expiration dates could significantly delay the development of wind energy generation facilities and the demand for wind turbines, towers, gearing and related components. We cannot assure you that any extension or renewal of the production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant program will be enacted prior to its expiration or, if allowed to expire, that any extension or renewal enacted thereafter would be enacted with retroactive effect. Any delay or failure to extend or renew the federal production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant program in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and future financial performance. State renewable energy portfolio standards generally require or encourage state-regulated electric utilities to supply a certain proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of their plant capacity to renewable energy generation. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our manufactured products. Currently, the majority of states and the District of Columbia have renewable energy portfolio standards in place and certain other states have voluntary utility commitments to supply a specific percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. Any changes to existing renewable energy portfolio standards, the enactment of renewable energy portfolio standards in additional states, or the enactment of a federal renewable energy portfolio may impact the demand for our products. We cannot assure you that government support for renewable energy will continue. The elimination of, or reduction in, state or federal government policies that support renewable energy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and future financial performance. We are substantially dependent on a few significant customers in our wind tower manufacturing business. The wind turbine market in the United States is concentrated, with eight manufacturers controlling in excess of 97% of the market. In addition, the majority of revenues in our wind tower manufacturing business have been highly concentrated with a limited number of customers. These customers were adversely affected by the downturn in the economy and we have seen, and may continue to see, a decrease in order volume from such customers. Among other things, contractual disputes could lead to an overall decrease in such customer's demand for our products and services, difficulty in collecting amounts due for such products or services, or difficulty in collecting amounts due to one or more of our subsidiaries that are not related to the dispute. A material change in payment terms for accounts receivable of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our short-term cash flows. We could also experience a reduction in demand if any of our customers determine to become more vertically integrated and produce our products internally. If our relationship with any of our significant customers should change materially, it could be difficult for us to immediately and profitably replace lost sales in a market with such concentration, which would materially adversely affect our results. 36 MANUFACTURING Competition from foreign and domestic manufacturers, the price and availability of raw materials and general economic conditions could affect the revenues and earnings of our manufacturing businesses. Our manufacturing businesses are subject to intense risks associated with competition from foreign and domestic manufacturers, many of whom have broader product lines, greater distribution capabilities, greater capital resources, larger marketing, research and development staffs and facilities and other capabilities that may place downward pressure on margins and profitability. The companies in our Manufacturing segment use a variety of raw materials in the products they manufacture, including steel, lumber, concrete, aluminum and resin. Costs for these items have increased significantly and may continue to increase. If our manufacturing businesses are not able to pass on cost increases to their customers, it could have a negative effect on profit margins in our Manufacturing segment. Each of our manufacturing companies has significant customers and concentrated sales to such customers. If our relationships with significant customers should change materially, it would be difficult to immediately and profitably replace lost sales. CONSTRUCTION Our construction companies may be unable to properly bid and perform on projects. The profitability and success of our construction companies require us to identify, estimate and timely bid on profitable projects. The quantity and quality of projects up for bids at any time is uncertain. Additionally, once a project is awarded, we must be able to perform within cost estimates that were set when the bid was submitted and accepted. A significant failure or an inability to properly bid or perform on projects could lead to adverse financial results for our construction companies. PLASTICS Our plastics operations are highly dependent on a limited number of vendors for PVC resin and a limited supply of PVC resin. The loss of a key vendor, or any interruption or delay in the supply of PVC resin, could result in reduced sales or increased costs for our plastics business. We rely on a limited number of vendors to supply the PVC resin used in our plastics business. Two vendors accounted for approximately 98% of our total purchases of PVC resin in 2010 and approximately 96% of our total purchases of PVC resin in 2009. In addition, the supply of PVC resin may be limited primarily due to manufacturing capacity and the limited availability of raw material components. A majority of U.S. resin production plants are located in the Gulf Coast region, which may increase the risk of a shortage of resin in the event of a hurricane or other natural disaster in that region. The loss of a key vendor or any interruption or delay in the availability or supply of PVC resin could disrupt our ability to deliver our plastic products, cause customers to cancel orders or require us to incur additional expenses to obtain PVC resin from alternative sources, if such sources are available. We compete against a large number of other manufacturers of PVC pipe and manufacturers of alternative products. Customers may not distinguish our products from those of our competitors. The plastic pipe industry is fragmented and competitive due to the number of producers and the fungible nature of the product. We compete not only against other PVC pipe manufacturers, but also against ductile iron, steel, concrete and clay pipe manufacturers. Due to shipping costs, competition is usually regional instead of national in scope, and the principal areas of competition are a combination of price, service, warranty, and product performance. Our inability to compete effectively in each of these areas and to distinguish our plastic pipe products from competing products may adversely affect the financial performance of our plastics business. Reductions in PVC resin prices can negatively affect our plastics business. The PVC pipe industry is highly sensitive to commodity raw material pricing volatility. Historically, when resin prices are rising or stable, margins and sales volume have been higher and when resin prices are falling, sales volumes and margins have been lower. Reductions in PVC resin prices could negatively affect PVC pipe prices, profit margins on PVC pipe sales and the value of our finished goods inventory. 37 HEALTH SERVICES Changes in the rates or methods of third-party reimbursements for our diagnostic imaging services could result in reduced demand for those services or create downward pricing pressure, which would decrease our revenues and earnings. Customers who use our diagnostic imaging services generally rely on reimbursement from third-party payors. Adverse changes in the rates or methods of third-party reimbursements, related to the Affordable Care Act or otherwise, could reduce the number of procedures for which we or our customers can obtain reimbursement or the amounts reimbursed to us or our customers. The Affordable Care Act was signed into law by President Obama in March 2010, and will result in significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system and the structure of the healthcare provider delivery system. The Affordable Care Act will create new payment methodologies and mechanisms under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to link payment with quality and cost-effective service delivery. The overall goal of the Affordable Care Act is to create a more integrated, coordinated, and more efficient healthcare delivery system. The full impact of the Affordable Care Act is uncertain, and will depend on future regulations and guidance to be promulgated by CMS. Any new reimbursement methodologies and mechanisms adopted by Medicare, Medicaid, or other commercial third party payors as a direct or indirect result of the Affordable Care Act could have an impact on the demand for our diagnostic tests. In addition, Section 3135 of the Affordable Care Act will result in a reduction in Medicare payment for advanced imaging services, such as CT and MRI tests. Under that provision, beginning January 2011 Medicare will presume a higher rate of utilization of advanced diagnostic imaging equipment, resulting in lower Medicare reimbursement for each test. This reimbursement reduction, as well as any other reimbursement changes resulting from the Affordable Care Act, could have an impact on the demand for our imaging services. The Affordable Care Act also provides the federal government with increased authority and tools to combat health care fraud and abuse, including additional subpoena powers, the ability to provide additional screening for new providers in the Medicare and Medicaid program, and the authority to withhold Medicare payment to a provider while an investigation is pending, among others. While we are unable at this time to predict what additional reforms will be implemented, or the effect that any future legislation or regulation will have on us, it is possible that our health services business may be adversely affected by such reforms, legislation or regulation. Our health services businesses may be unable to continue to maintain agreements with Philips from which we derive significant revenues from the sale and service of Philips diagnostic imaging equipment. Our health services business agreement with Philips expires on December 31, 2013. This agreement can be terminated on 180 days written notice by either party for any reason. It also includes other compliance requirements. If this agreement is terminated under the existing termination provisions or we are not able to comply with the agreement, the financial results of our health services operations would be adversely affected. Technological change in the diagnostic imaging industry could reduce the demand for diagnostic imaging services and require our health services operations to incur significant costs to upgrade its equipment. Although we believe substantially all of our diagnostic imaging systems can be upgraded to maintain their state-of-the-art character, the development of new technologies or refinements of existing technologies might make our existing systems technologically or economically obsolete, or cause a reduction in the value of, or reduce the need for, our systems. Actions by regulators of our health services operations could result in monetary penalties or restrictions in our health services operations. Our health services operations are subject to federal and state regulations relating to licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities and relationships with customers. Our failure to comply with these regulations or our inability to obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals, may result in adverse actions by regulators with respect to our health services operations, which may include civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, injunctions, operating restrictions or suspension of operations. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results. Courts and regulatory authorities have not fully interpreted a significant number of these laws and regulations, and this uncertainty in interpretation increases the risk that we may be found to be in violation. Any action brought against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if successfully defended, may result in significant legal expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our businesses. 38 FOOD INGREDIENT PROCESSING Our company that processes dehydrated potato flakes, flour and granules, IPH, competes in a highly competitive market and is dependent on adequate sources of potatoes for processing. The market for processed, dehydrated potato flakes, flour and granules is highly competitive. The profitability and success of our potato processing company is dependent on superior product quality, competitive product pricing, strong customer relationships, raw material costs, fuel prices and availability and customer demand for finished goods. In most product categories, our company competes with numerous manufacturers of varying sizes in the United States. The principal raw material used by IPH is washed process-grade potatoes from growers and potato fresh packing operations. These potatoes are unsuitable for use in other markets due to imperfections. They are not subject to the United States Department of Agriculture’s general requirements and expectations for size, shape or color. While our food ingredient processing company has processing capabilities in three geographically distinct growing regions, there can be no assurance it will be able to obtain raw materials due to poor growing conditions, a loss of key suppliers, loss of potato production acres to other crops, and other factors. A loss or shortage of raw materials or the necessity of paying much higher prices for raw materials or fuel could adversely affect the financial performance of this company. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a negative impact on our potato processing company’s net income and competitive position because approximately 18% of IPH sales in 2010 and approximately 16% of IPH sales in 2009 were outside the United States and the Canadian plant pays its operating expenses in Canadian dollars. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 