Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to stockholders and could cause the value of our capital stock to decline. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE We operate in a competitive market for investment opportunities and future competition may limit our ability to acquire desirable investments in our target assets and could also affect the pricing of these securities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make. We compete with other REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies and other entities. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several other mortgage REITs have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us, such as funding from the U.S. Government, if we are not eligible to, or determine not to, participate in programs established by the U.S. Government. Many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with REIT tax compliance or maintenance of an exemption from the 1940 Act. Furthermore, competition for investments in our target assets may lead to the price of such assets increasing, which may further limit our ability to generate desired returns. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. Our ability to generate returns for our stockholders through our investment, finance and operating strategies is subject to then existing market conditions, and we may make significant changes to these strategies in response to changing market conditions. We have been formed to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns to our stockholders over the long term, primarily through dividends and secondarily through capital appreciation. We intend to achieve this objective by originating, investing in, acquiring, financing and managing a diversified portfolio of our target assets. In the future, to the extent that market conditions stabilize or change and we have sufficient capital to do so, we may, depending on prevailing market conditions, change our investment guidelines in response to opportunities available in different interest rate, economic and credit environments. As a result, we cannot predict the percentage of our equity that will be invested in any of our target assets at any given time. We are dependent on our Manager and its key personnel for our success and upon their access to Apollo’s investment professionals and partners. We may not find a suitable replacement for our Manager if our management agreement is terminated, or if key personnel leave the employment of our Manager or Apollo or otherwise become unavailable to us. We do not have any employees and we rely completely on our Manager to provide us with investment and advisory services. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Manager, which has 5 Table of Contents significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our Manager. We benefit from the personnel, relationships and experience of our Manager’s executive team and other personnel and investors of Apollo. The executive officers and key personnel of our Manager evaluate, negotiate, close and monitor our investments; therefore, our success will depend on their continued service. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Manager’s access to the investment professionals and partners of Apollo and the information and deal flow generated by the Apollo investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. The departure of any senior managers of our Manager, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or partners of Apollo, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. In addition, we offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our investment manager or that we will continue to have access to our Manager’s or Apollo’s executive officers and other investment professionals. The ability of our Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time our Manager spends managing our business and may result in certain conflicts of interest. Certain of our officers and directors, and the officers and other personnel of our Manager, also serve or may serve as officers, directors or partners of other Apollo vehicles. Accordingly, the ability of our Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time our Manager spends managing our business. Although these other Apollo vehicles do not currently focus on our target assets classes as part of their core investment strategies, these vehicles or others that may be organized by Apollo in the future may at times compete with us for some of our target investments. Further, the officers and other personnel of our Manager may be called upon to provide managerial assistance to other Apollo vehicles. These demands on their time may distract them or slow the rate of investment. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay distributions in the future. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year for us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy through quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in such year, subject to certain adjustments. Dividends will be declared and paid at the discretion of our Board and will depend on our REIT taxable earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant from time to time. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stock and our ability to pay dividends may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in our operating results. There are various conflicts of interest in our relationship with Apollo which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with Apollo, including our Manager. In the future, we may enter into additional transactions with Apollo. In particular, we may invest in, or acquire, certain of our investments through joint ventures with Apollo or its affiliates or purchase assets from, sell assets to or arrange financing from or provide financing to other Apollo vehicles. Any such transactions will require approval by a majority of our independent directors. There can be no assurance that any procedural protections will be sufficient to assure that these transactions will be made on terms that will be at least as favorable to us as those that would have been obtained in an arm’s length transaction. In addition to the Company, an affiliate of our Manager manages an investment vehicle whose core investment strategy focuses on one of the Company’s target asset classes. To the extent such other Apollo vehicles or such portfolio companies seek to acquire our target assets, the scope of opportunities otherwise available to us may be adversely affected and/or reduced. Our Manager and Apollo have an investment allocation policy in place that is 6 Table of Contents intended to enable us to share equitably with any such other investment vehicles. According to this policy, investments may be allocated by taking into account factors, including but not limited to, investment objectives or strategies, the size of the available investment, cash availability and cash flow expectations, and the tax implications of an investment, among other considerations. The investment allocation policy may be amended by our Manager and Apollo at any time without our consent. In addition to the fees payable to our Manager under the management agreement, our Manager and its affiliates may benefit from other fees paid to it in respect of our investments. For example, if we seek to securitize our commercial mortgage loans, Apollo and/or our Manager, may act as collateral manager. In any of these or other capacities, Apollo and/or our Manager may receive market based fees for their roles, but only if approved by a majority of our independent directors. There are no information barriers amongst Apollo and certain of its affiliates. If we were to receive material non-public information about a particular company, or have an interest in investing in a particular company, Apollo or certain of its affiliates may be prevented from investing in such company. Conversely, if Apollo or certain of its affiliates were to receive material non-public information about a particular company, or have an interest in investing in a particular company, we may be prevented in investing in such company. We have entered into a royalty-free license agreement with Apollo, pursuant to which Apollo has agreed to grant us a non-exclusive license to use the name “Apollo.” Under the license agreement, we have the right to use the “Apollo” name for so long as our Manager or one of its affiliates remains our manager. If we do not qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income, and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in determining our taxable income. We intend to elect to qualify as a REIT and intend to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Code). Accordingly, we will not be subjected to income tax to the extent we distribute our REIT taxable income (which is generally ordinary income, computed by excluding the dividends paid deduction, income from prohibited transactions, income from foreclosure property and any net capital income) to stockholders and provided that we comply with certain income, asset and ownership tests applicable to REITs. We believe that we currently meet all of the REIT requirements and, therefore, intend to continue to qualify as a REIT under the provisions of the Code. Many of the REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve interpretation. For example, as set forth in the REIT tax laws, to qualify as a REIT, annually at least 75% of our gross income must come from, among other sources, interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property or interests in real property, gain from the disposition of non-dealer real property, including mortgages or interest in real property, dividends, other distributions and gains from the disposition of shares in other REITs, commitment fees received for agreements to make real estate loans and certain temporary investment income. In addition, the composition of our assets must meet certain requirements at the close of each quarter. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) or a court would agree with any conclusions or positions we have taken in interpreting the REIT requirements. Also in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis to our stockholders. Such dividend distribution requirement limits the amount of cash we have available for other business purposes, including amounts to fund our growth. Also, it is possible that because of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, we may have to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the 90% dividend distribution requirement. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT qualification unless we meet certain statutory relief provisions. Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult or impossible for us to remain qualified as a REIT. 7 Table of Contents If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income, and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in determining our taxable income. In such a case, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay our taxes. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our stockholders. In addition, unless we were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income. Any of these taxes will reduce our operating cash flow. Compliance with securities laws and regulations could be costly. The SOX Act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange affect the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, regulatory compliance and reporting, and disclosure practices. We believe that these rules and regulations will continue to make it costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of management and our Board (particularly with respect to Board members serving on our Audit Committee). Loss of our 1940 Act exemption would adversely affect us. We conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries, the securities issued by these subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of “investment company” under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries, including ACREFI Operating, LLC, qualifies for an exemption from registration as an investment company under the 1940 Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, which is available for entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of our subsidiaries’ portfolios must be comprised of qualifying assets and at least another 25% of each of their portfolios must be comprised of real estate-related assets under the 1940 Act (and no more than 20% comprised of miscellaneous assets). Qualifying assets for this purpose include mortgage loans, certain B-Notes and mezzanine loans that satisfy various conditions as set forth in SEC staff no-action letters, and other assets that the SEC staff in various no-action letters has determined are the functional equivalent of mortgage loans for the purposes of the 1940 Act. We treat as real estate- related assets CMBS, B-Notes and mezzanine loans that do not satisfy the conditions set forth in the relevant SEC staff no-action letters, debt and equity securities of companies primarily engaged in real estate businesses. In general we also, with regard to our subsidiaries relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C), rely on other guidance published by the SEC staff or on our analyses of guidance published with respect to other types of assets to determine which assets are qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. To the extent that the SEC staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. In addition, we may be limited in our ability to make certain investments and these limitations could result in the subsidiary holding assets we might wish to sell or selling assets we might wish to hold. Although we monitor the portfolios of our subsidiaries relying on the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption periodically and prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that such subsidiaries we will be able to maintain this exemption. 8 Table of Contents We have organized special purpose subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(7) for their 1940 Act exemption to hold certain mezzanine loans and, therefore, our interest in each of these TALF subsidiaries constitutes an “investment security” for purposes of determining whether we pass the 40% test. We have also organized subsidiaries that have received funding under the TALF program that may seek to rely on the 1940 Act exemption provided to certain structured financing vehicles by Rule 3a-7. To comply with Rule 3a-7, any such subsidiary will need to comply with the restrictions described below, as well as any future guidance that may be issued by the Division of Investment Management of the SEC on how subsidiaries that borrow from the TALF program must be organized to comply with the restrictions contained in Rule 3a-7. In general, Rule 3a-7 exempts from the 1940 Act issuers that limit their activities as follows: • the issuer issues securities the payment of which depends primarily on the cash flow from “eligible assets,” which are assets that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time period and include many of the types of assets that we acquired and financed through the TALF program; • the securities sold are fixed income securities rated investment grade by at least one rating agency (fixed income securities which are unrated or rated below investment grade may be sold to institutional accredited investors and any securities may be sold to “qualified institutional buyers” and to persons involved in the organization or operation of the issuer); • the issuer acquires and disposes of eligible assets (1) only in accordance with the agreements pursuant to which the securities are issued and (2) so that the acquisition or disposition does not result in a downgrading of the issuer’s fixed income securities and (3) the eligible assets are not acquired or disposed of for the primary purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes; and • unless the issuer is issuing only commercial paper, the issuer appoints an independent trustee, takes reasonable steps to transfer to the trustee an ownership or perfected security interest in the eligible assets, and meets rating agency requirements for commingling of cash flows. In addition, in certain circumstances, compliance with Rule 3a-7 may also require, among other things, that the indenture governing the subsidiary include additional limitations on the types of assets the subsidiary may sell or acquire out of the proceeds of assets that mature, are refinanced or otherwise sold, on the period of time during which such transactions may occur, and on the level of transactions that may occur. In light of the requirements of Rule 3a-7, there is no assurance that our subsidiaries that borrowed under the TALF program will be able to rely on this exemption and our ability to manage assets held in subsidiaries that rely on this exemption will be limited and may restrict our ability to purchase or sell assets owned by that subsidiary when we would otherwise desire to do so, which could lead to losses. The aggregate value of our interests in our subsidiaries, including those that have borrowed under the TALF program, that rely on Rule 3a-7, will comprise less than 20% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. The determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of our company is made by us. The 1940 Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The 1940 Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. We have not requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one of more companies as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our strategy and our assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in our strategy could have a material adverse effect on us. 9 Table of Contents Qualification for exemption from registration under the 1940 Act will limit our ability to make certain investments. For example, these restrictions will limit the ability of our subsidiaries to invest directly in CMBS that represent less than the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans, debt and equity tranches of securitizations and certain in assets not related to real estate. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 Act status of REITs, including the Division of Investment Management of the SEC providing more specific or different guidance regarding these exemptions, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. To the extent that the SEC staff provides more specific guidance regarding any of the matters bearing upon such exclusions, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC staff could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the strategies we have chosen. If we failed to maintain our exempt status under the 1940 Act and became regulated as an investment company, our ability to, among other things, use leverage would be substantially reduced and, as a result, we would be unable to conduct our business as described in this annual report on Form 10-K. If we or our subsidiaries fail to maintain an exception or exemption from the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required either to (a) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or (c) register as an investment company, any of which could negatively affect the value of our common stock, the sustainability of our business model, and our ability to make distributions which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price for shares of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCING Interest rate fluctuations could reduce the income on our investments and increase our financing costs. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating results as such changes will affect the interest we receive on our floating rate interest bearing investments and the financing cost of our debt, as well as our interest rate swaps that we may utilize for hedging purposes. Changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates, which may result in losses for us. If a counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in repurchase transactions, we sell securities to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. The lenders are obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction. Because the cash we receive from the lender when we initially sell the securities to the lender is less than the value of those securities (this difference is referred to as the haircut), if the lender defaults on its obligation to resell the same securities back to us we could incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). We could also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Further, if we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the lender will be able to terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. The repurchase agreements we may enter into may contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 10 Table of Contents We have utilized TALF financing in our strategy and such financing may subject us to additional risks. We have utilized TALF financing, which may subject us to the following additional risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and the cash we have available to fund distributions to our stockholders: • Because TALF borrowings are secured facilities, in the case of default, we could lose our investment in the collateral we pledged to secure such facilities. • We expect our TALF borrowings to impose restrictions on our ability to transfer assets that secure the facility which could prevent a sale of such assets during optimal periods. • All of our TALF loans need to be repaid or refinanced at maturity (anticipated to occur within three to five years after funding). As a result, we will be subject to the risk that, at maturity, alternative financing is either not available or only available on unfavorable terms. In addition, at maturity, we may be compelled to sell assets on terms that may not be favorable to us, or surrender the posted collateral to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or the FRBNY, resulting in the loss of all or part of our investment in the collateral. • To obtain TALF loans, we must execute a customer agreement with at least one primary dealer which will act on our behalf under the TALF program. Such agreements may make the terms of any TALF borrowings less favorable to us and/or expose us to additional liabilities. • Interest payments received from assets that are used as collateral for a TALF loan must be applied to pay interest on the related TALF loan before any interest payments can be distributed to us, and to the extent there are interest payments from the collateral in excess of the required interest payment on the related TALF loan, the amount of such excess interest that will be distributed to us may be limited. We may also be required to use our capital resources and earnings to keep any TALF loans current. As a result, TALF fundings could require us to allocate capital to support repayment of these fundings and away from what may otherwise be more attractive acquisition opportunities. • The FRBNY will have full recourse to us for repayment of any TALF loan for breaches of our representations made to our primary dealers in connection with obtaining such loan. As a result, we could be subject to losses from any TALF borrowing in excess of the equity we invest to obtain such borrowing. • The terms and conditions of the TALF, including asset and borrower eligibility, could be changed at any time which could impact the market value of any of our assets financed through the TALF and otherwise or our ability to obtain additional TALF financing. We may enter into hedging transactions that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy will involve entering into hedging transactions that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (such as the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument). The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we intend to pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the 11 Table of Contents level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. In addition, we may fail to recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient manner. Any hedging activity in which we engage may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions seeking to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS We cannot assure you that we will be successful in consummating additional investment opportunities we identify which would likely materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our Manager intends to conduct due diligence with respect to each investment and suitable investment opportunities may not be immediately available. We cannot, however, assure you that we will be able to identify additional assets that meet our investment objective, that our Manager’s due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts regarding such investments, that we will be successful in consummating any investment opportunities we identify or that the investments we make using the net proceeds of this offering and the concurrent private placements will yield attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our inability to do any of the foregoing likely would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The lack of liquidity of our assets may adversely affect our business, including our ability to value and sell our assets. The illiquidity of our investments in commercial mortgage loans, commercial real estate corporate debt and loans and other real estate-related debt investments other than certain of our investments in CMBS, may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need or desire arises. Many of the securities we purchase will not be registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or their disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in accordance with, those laws. In addition, certain investments such as B Notes, mezzanine loans and other loans are also particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower’s default. As a result, we expect many of our investments will be illiquid and if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Further, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or our Manager has or could be attributed with material, non-public information regarding such business entity. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our investments may be concentrated and will be subject to risk of default. While we intend to diversify our portfolio of investments in the manner described in this prospectus, we are not required to observe specific diversification criteria, except as may be set forth in the investment guidelines adopted by our board of directors. Therefore, our investments in our target assets may at times be concentrated in certain property types that are subject to higher risk of foreclosure, or secured by properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. To the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of asset, downturns relating generally to such region or type of asset may result in defaults on a number of our 12 Table of Contents investments within a short time period, which may reduce our net income and the value of our common stock and accordingly reduce our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Difficult conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets have resulted in a significant contraction in liquidity for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, which may adversely affect the value of the assets in which we intend to invest. Our results of operations will be materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally. Beginning in mid-2007, global financial markets encountered a series of events from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market to the ensuing dramatic widening of credit spreads and corresponding broad-scale freezing of corporate lending. These events led to a significant dislocation in capital markets and created a severe shortage of debt capital for commercial real estate, a deleveraging of the entire global financial system and the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage-related and other financial assets. As a result of these conditions, many traditional commercial mortgage loan and securities investors have suffered severe losses in their loan and securities portfolios and several major market participants have failed or been impaired, resulting in a severe contraction in market liquidity and in a sharp reduction in the availability of credit for real estate-related assets. The resulting illiquidity has negatively affected both the terms and availability of financing for all real estate-related assets, and has generally resulted in real estate-related assets trading at significantly lower prices and higher yields compared to prior periods. Further increased volatility and deterioration in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our investments. Furthermore, if these conditions persist, institutions from which we may seek financing for our investments may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. The commercial mortgage loans and other commercial real estate-related loans we invest in and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS we invest in are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, any or all of which could result in losses to us. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with mortgage loans made on the security of one to four family residential properties. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Our Manager will make certain estimates of losses during its underwriting of commercial mortgage loans. Our Manager’s loss estimates may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In the event of any default under a mortgage or other real estate-related loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the commercial mortgage loan or other real estate-related loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a commercial mortgage loan borrower or other real estate-related loan borrower, the loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy 13 Table of Contents court), and the lien securing the loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a commercial mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the CMBS we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Our investments in B Notes and mezzanine loans may be subject to losses. The B Notes in which we may invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. As part of our whole loan origination platform, we may retain from whole loans we acquire or originate, subordinate interests referred to as B Notes. B Notes are commercial real estate loans secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and subordinated to a senior interest, referred to as an A Note. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B Note owners after payment to the A Note owners. B Notes reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B Notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each B Note investment. Similar to our B Note strategy, we may originate or acquire mezzanine loans originated after January 1, 2009, which are loans made to property owners that are secured by pledges of the borrower’s ownership interests, in whole or in part, in entities that directly or indirectly own the real property. The loan to value and last dollar of exposure of the mezzanine loans will not differ greatly from the whole loans we originate or acquire, with the key distinction being that the most senior portion of the loan with the least credit risk is owned by a third party lender. In the event a borrower defaults on a loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy our loan, we may suffer a loss of principal or interest. In the event a borrower declares bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the loan. In addition, mezzanine loans are by their nature structurally subordinated to more senior property level financings. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the property level debt and other senior debt is paid in full. Significant losses related to our B Notes or mezzanine loans would result in operating losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We will likely not control the special servicing of the mortgage loans included in the CMBS in which we invest and, in such cases, the special servicer may take actions that could adversely affect our interests. With respect to each series of the CMBS in which we invest, overall control over the special servicing of the related underlying mortgage loans will be held by a “directing certificateholder” or a “controlling class representative,” which is appointed by the holders of the most subordinate class of certificates in such series (except in the case of TALF-financed newly issued CMBS and certain other CMBS, where control over the servicing of the underlying mortgage loans must not be held by investors in a subordinate class of the CMBS once the principal balance of that class is reduced to less than 25% of its initial principal balance as a result of both actual realized losses and “appraisal reduction amounts”). In general, we will target for acquisition “investment grade” CMBS (which are rated Aaa/AAA through Baa3/BBB- by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations) issued on or after September 1, 2009. In addition, we will also seek to acquire CMBS issued prior to January 1, 2009 with an emphasis on tranches that have retained their AAA credit rating. Since we will initially focus on these classes of CMBS, we will likely not have the right to appoint the directing certificate-holder. In connection with the servicing of the specially serviced mortgage loans, the related special servicer may, at the direction of the directing certificate-holder, take actions with respect to the specially serviced mortgage loans that could adversely affect our interests. However, the special servicer is generally not permitted to take actions that are prohibited by law or violate the applicable servicing standard or the terms of the mortgage loan documents. 14 Table of Contents Our investments in commercial real estate corporate debt and loans and debt securities of commercial real estate operating or finance companies will be subject to the specific risks relating to the particular company and to the general risks of investing in real estate-related loans and securities, which may result in significant losses. We may invest in commercial real estate corporate debt and loans and debt securities of commercial real estate operating or finance companies, including REITs. These investments will involve special risks relating to the particular company, including its financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, business and prospects. In particular, the debt securities are often non-collateralized and may also be subordinated to its other obligations. We may invest in debt securities of companies that are not rated or are rated non-investment grade by one or more rating agencies. Investments that are not rated or are rated non-investment grade have a higher risk of default than investment grade rated assets and therefore may result in losses to us. We have not adopted any limit on such investments. These investments will also subject us to the risks inherent with real estate-related investments referred to in this prospectus, including the risks described with respect to commercial properties and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks specific to the type and use of a particular property. These risks may adversely affect the value of our investments in commercial real estate operating and finance companies and the ability of the issuers thereof to make principal and interest payments in a timely manner, or at all, and could result in significant losses. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could impair our investments and harm our operations. We believe the risks associated with our business will be more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. In addition, our investment model may be adversely affected if the current economic recession continues longer or is deeper than we anticipate. Declining real estate values will likely reduce the level of new mortgage and other real estate-related loan originations since borrowers often use appreciation in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the value of real estate weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect our manager’s ability to invest in, sell and securitize loans, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. These risks may result in a reduction or elimination of or return from a loan secured by a particular property. We may own real estate directly in the future upon a default of mortgage or other real estate-related loans. Real estate investments are subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; 15 Table of Contents • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 