D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information in this report, including various changing regulatory, competitive, economic, political and social risks and conditions described below, before making an investment in our ordinary shares. One or more of a combination of these risks could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In any such case, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investments. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected as a result of regulatory changes in the cord blood banking industry in China. We generate substantially all of our revenues by providing our subscribers processing services, which consist of the testing and processing of cord blood units, and storage services, which consist of the storage of cord blood units in our facilities. We sometimes refer the processing services and storage services collectively as “subscription services” in this report. In addition, we are also required by the PRC government to store cord blood units donated by the public and offer matching units to patients in need of transplants, which we sometimes refer to as the “matching services” in this report. All of these revenues for the years ended March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015 were derived in China. Due to the lack of a clear, consistent and well-developed regulatory framework, operation in the cord blood banking industry in China involves significant ambiguities, uncertainties and risks. We cannot assure you that we can continue to operate our business in the same manner for the following reasons: 6 Table of Contents · The NHFPC has been following a “one license per region” policy in its regulation of cord blood banks, which precludes more than one cord blood banking licensee from operating in the same region. This policy may be changed at any time. If new licenses are issued in Beijing, Guangdong, Zhejiang or any region where we are operating the licensed cord blood banks, or the LHFPCs actually permit or acquiesce in operation of subscription service by other type of institutions, our market position as the sole cord blood banking operator in the relevant region may be undermined. Further, we may be required to record impairment charges in respect of some or all of the carrying values of the rights to operate our cord blood banks in Guangdong and Zhejiang, or our investment in Shandong if additional licenses are issued in those regions or if the NHFPC or the relevant LHFPC takes the position that the provision of fee-based commercial cord blood banking services is not limited to operators of licensed cord blood banks. Any impairment charge that we may be required to record due to changes in regulatory policies would materially adversely affect our assets and net income. · Our business may be exposed to increasingly stringent anti-monopolistic measures from the PRC government. Under the PRC Antitrust Law, the monopolistic activities are classified into (i) monopoly agreements, including both agreements entered into between business operators and suppliers and agreements between the operators; (ii) abuse of dominant market position by business operators; and (iii) concentration of business operators that may have the effect of precluding or impeding competition. As of the date of this report, only seven cord blood banking licenses have been granted in China, three of which to the Beijing Cord Blood Bank, Guangdong Cord Blood Bank and Zhejiang Cord Blood Bank (all of which are operated by us) and a fourth to Qilu, the sole operator of the Shandong Cord Blood Bank, in which we own a 24.0% effective interest. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be identified as a business operator having dominant market position. In the event of such circumstances, there is a possibility that the antitrust authorities would impose more stringent supervision over our operations in China, in particular as to our abilities in changing or modifying any parts of our operations. There is even a risk that subscription prices would become subject to compulsory or directory guidance or other restrictions imposed by PRC government. Further, we plan to expand our business through further strategic acquisitions. If the contemplated business concentration has the effect of precluding or impeding competition, the antitrust authorities may prohibit consummation of the contemplated business concentration or impose conditions that would lessen the impact of the concentration poses on competition, and we may therefore be unable to expand our business through acquisition. In addition, our subsidiaries in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang adopt similar commercial policies and share lots of material procurement channels in China. In the event there is any agreement or a series of agreements entered into by us that are identified as monopoly agreements, the profits generated from such agreements could be confiscated and we may be subject to administrative penalties. · There is a possibility that the NHFPC or the relevant LHFPC will take the position that the provision of fee-based commercial cord blood banking services is not limited to operators of licensed cord blood banks. In the event that the NHFPC or the relevant LHFPC publicly announces such a position, or clarifies such position in an implicit or explicit manner, other companies in healthcare or other related industries may begin to provide such services, in which case we will face direct competition from these companies. · In response to the development of medical reform of China, the PRC government may further promulgate certain guidance or compulsory regulations or clarify its policies or regulatory positions in other manners, which could undermine cord blood bank operator profitability by restricting or even prohibiting licensed cord blood banks or their operators from conducting fee-based commercial cord blood banking services. The PRC government may guide or force licensed cord blood bank to focus on its business of providing matching services or at least take matching services as its main business by imposing certain restrictive conditions on subscription services. If any of such circumstances occur, our business and financial conditions may be adversely affected. · The NHFPC or the relevant LHFPC may be inclined to restrict or prohibit the operators of licensed cord blood bank from conducting fee-based commercial cord blood banking services directly. In such event, we may have to change our business model or even terminate our business, and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. · The NHFPC or the relevant LHFPC may take the position that the subscription services and the matching services cannot be operated by the same operator. In such circumstances, we may be required to obtain a separate or a special license, permit, or authorization for our subscription services, or may be subject to some restrictive conditions, in which case our operations will be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents · The PRC government may adopt additional requirements for the licensing, permitting or registration of cord blood banking services. As a result of the ongoing healthcare reforms in China, and in view of the policies promulgated and published by the PRC government regarding the aforementioned healthcare reform, including but not limited to the Notice on Strengthening the Management and Control of Cord Blood Stem Cells published by the MOH on October 24, 2011, cord blood banks services may be subjected to the pricing standards established by the relevant commodity price departments of PRC. Moreover, on October 8, 2012, the State Council published a notice on the “Twelfth Five-Year Plan” of Health Care Development which suggests strengthening the safety and security of the blood stations, and improving the standards of the blood station laboratories, and on December 3, 2012, the MOH published three industrial standards including “Requirements for Blood Storage” which may be related to our cord blood banking service management. Notwithstanding, there is lacking of a clear and explicit price level or price guidance in relation to the cord blood banking services which we provide. We cannot rule out the possibility that PRC government may establish price guidance or introduce other specific price control standards for the cord blood banking services in the future. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that our subscription services will not be included in the scope of the price control or that governmental prices will be higher than our current rates or the costs of our operation. If this happens, our subscription services may become subject to compulsory or directory guidance or other restrictions imposed by the PRC government. In particular, if subscription services become subject to price control in China, we would be required to abide by such control and policies and we may not be able to charge our subscribers at current rates. If the government controlled pricing or price guidance set by the relevant department of PRC government is lower than our current pricing or the cost of our operation, our business operation or financial condition will be materially adversely affected. If we lose our position as the sole provider of cord blood banking services in our existing markets, our business and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected by a relaxation or an abolishment of the one-child policy in China. The one-child policy has been established for over 30 years in China, and has successfully controlled population growth rates in the past years. In November 2013, the PRC government announced that it would gradually relax the one-child policy by allowing families to have two children if one of the parents is an only child. Although the one-child policy is not fully adopted in all provinces in China, however, the implementation schedule of the aforesaid policy will be executed soon in the near future, according to the interview of Mr. Wang Peian (the Vice-chairman of the NHFPC) published on the NHFPC’s website on November 17, 2013. With only one child in each family, it is difficult to obtain matching stem cells if such child needs a transplant. In families with more than one child, the possibility of acquiring matching stem cells from a sibling is increased, and such families may decide not to choose our subscription services. If the one-child policy in China is further relaxed or abolished, we cannot assure the demand for our subscription services will maintain at current levels and thus, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected. If all or part of the demand for stem cells is met by matching cord blood units donated by the public to patients in need of transplants, expectant parents may choose not to pay for our subscription services, and our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected. There is no assurance that demand for our subscription services will remain at current levels for the following reasons: · Cord blood banking licensees in China are required to accept all cord blood unit donations except for a valid medical reason and to provide matching services to patients in need of transplants. As the number of cord blood units donated by the public grows in size and increases in diversity, the probability of finding matching units for a patient among the units donated by the public may increase, which may result in a decrease in market demand for our subscription services. · The value of our subscription services is related to the higher success rate of autologous cord blood transplants over unrelated ones. If medical research discovers new and more effective medical procedures that make allogeneic cord blood transplants safer and more effective, the clinical advantage of storing a child’s umbilical cord blood for his or her own future therapeutic use may significantly decline. · The PRC government is in the process of making reforms to the healthcare industry in China. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not adopt policies to encourage non-profit healthcare measures, such as matching services, while restricting or prohibiting profit-making healthcare measures, such as our subscription services. Any decrease in the demand for our subscription services could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 8 Table of Contents We currently operate our business only in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang. As a result of this geographic concentration, a downturn in the local economy or birthrate level of these regions could impair our growth and adversely affect our financial results. Our operations are largely concentrated in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang. Due to the lack of geographical diversity of our operations, we may be unable to mitigate the effects of any adverse trends in economic development, disposable income or birthrate level in these regions. In particular: · The successful operation and growth of our business are primarily dependent on general economic conditions in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang, which in turn are affected by many factors, including demographic trends, the strength of the manufacturing and services industries, and foreign trade. A deterioration of current economic conditions or an economic downturn in China as a whole, or Beijing, Guangdong or Zhejiang in particular, could result in declines in new subscriber sign-ups and impair our growth. · Because cord blood banking is a precautionary healthcare measure, our ability to sign up new subscribers generally depends on the disposable income of expectant parents. There are many factors that are likely to cause such discretionary spending to fall, such as increases in interest rates, inflation, economic recession, declines in consumer credit availability, increases in consumer debt levels, increases in tax rates, increases in unemployment, and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. · As currently our market is primarily targeted at expectant parents and newborns, the growth of our business will be subject to the birthrate level as well as population base in our operating regions. In the event the birthrate level or the population base in our operating regions significantly declines, the results of our operations, revenues and liquidity may be substantially undermined. A major growth strategy of ours is to focus on penetrating our existing markets. Such strategy could be risky, because adverse economic or regulatory developments in one or multiple markets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we can maintain or enhance our success rates in attracting new subscribers in the future. Our investment in Qilu may be materially adversely affected due to a downturn in the local economy or birthrate level in the Shandong province. Such deterioration may materially adversely affect or result in an impairment of our investment. We invested in Qilu, the exclusive cord blood banking operator in the Shandong province, with an equity interest of 24.0%. Due to the lack of geographical diversity, Qilu may be unable to mitigate the effects of any adverse trends in local economic development, disposable income or birthrate level. Any slowdown in the Shandong province’s economic development, unfavorable demographic trend, decline in disposable income of expectant parents or adverse change in consumer behavior will adversely affect Qilu’s capability to penetrate its local market. As such, our investment in Qilu may be materially adversely affected or severely impaired. If we fail to expand through strategic acquisitions of cord blood banks in other regions, we may not be able to expand our scope of operations or increase our revenues. According to the Notice on Extension of Time Limit on Planning and Establishment of the Cord Blood Bank published by the MOH in February 2011, the MOH will not issue more than three additional licenses by 2015. The NHFPC has not made any public announcement regarding the regions in which licenses will be granted. We have not filed any application in regions where we believe cord blood banking licenses may be issued in the near future. Therefore, we believe we would have to rely on strategic acquisitions to expand our operations into these regions. Expansion through strategic acquisitions is subject to a number of risks: · We may fail to locate suitable acquisition candidates with business operations that are consistent with our growth strategy and at prices and on terms that are satisfactory. Alternatively, we may have to compete with other Chinese cord blood banking operators in bidding to acquire cord blood banks in regions where we expect licenses to be granted. Some of these competitors may have greater capital resources than us. · To finance part or all of our acquisition costs, we may need to issue ordinary shares, incur debt and assume contingent liabilities. Such acquisitions may also create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets. Any of these factors might harm our financial results and lead to volatility in the price of our shares. Further, any financing we might need for future acquisitions may be available only on terms that restrict our business or impose costs that decrease our profits. · Even if we make a successful bid, we may be unable to obtain government approvals necessary to consummate any given proposed acquisition. Among others, if the contemplated business concentration has the effect of precluding or impeding competition, the antitrust authorities may prohibit consummation of the contemplated business concentration or impose conditions that would lessen the impact of such concentration poses on competition. Further, we may encounter protective measures in local markets that may preclude or impede our ability to expand into such regions through strategic acquisitions. 9 Table of Contents · Any integration of new businesses may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. Among others, we may be unable to discover during due diligence all contingent liabilities and adverse issues, giving rise to unexpected delays or difficulties during integration. · While all cord blood banks must meet the relevant standards set by the NHFPC, some cord blood banks, due to their limited operating history, may possess different technological standards and operational models than ours. We may need to devote significant time and resources upon completion of the acquisition to amend and transform the acquired target. We may, prior to the implementation of an acquisition, fail to predict the appropriate amount of time and resources required to complete such transformation. It is even possible that we may not be able to rectify the situation at all. Due to the foregoing uncertainties, we may be subject to substantial costs and unexpected delays arising out of an acquisition. Our future success depends on our ability to increase our target subscription base by expanding our geographical coverage to other regions. If we are unable to grow our operations through strategic acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur significant initial investments to apply for cord blood banking licenses in other regions, and if we are unsuccessful, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. If the NHFPC decides to grant new cord blood banking licenses in the future in other regions, we may attempt to apply for licenses in such regions. Applying for licenses involves a variety of risks: · Based on the time needed for the granting of the seven existing cord blood licenses, we believe that the application process for a cord blood banking license in China generally takes several years. We may incur substantial costs during the application process in the construction of cord blood banks with no certainty of success. · At any time during the application process, the NHFPC may decide not to grant a cord blood banking license in the region. Further, our likelihood of success may not be assessed easily, for the reason of neither the NHFPC nor the LHFPC currently announces the number of prospective applicants. · The potential award of new licenses may attract new entrants to the industry. Some of these entrants may consist of internationally based specialists with more extensive technical capabilities and stronger brand recognition and China-based healthcare conglomerates with significantly more resources than us. We compete with other market players for substantially the same licenses. Increased competition may result in an increase in the average cost per license. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain new licenses through the application process. If we are unable to successfully obtain the new licenses to be awarded, we may not be able to maintain our market position within the China cord blood banking industry. Currently, we have neither identified any specific locations nor expressed any written interest in constructing a cord blood bank. 10 Table of Contents We may face unfair competition from competitors with or without licenses in our target markets. China is having its laws and regulations changed, supplemented and amended from time to time to establish a well-developed legal system, while at the same time, China is in an environment in which market conditions change rapidly. Therefore, certain laws and regulations fail to be updated in time to adapt to the new business environment, and some of the laws and regulations published only give a regulatory framework or fundamental principles, whose specific operational procedures and clear explanations in relation to certain details (for example, the standard, the scope, the procedures and so on) may be absent. Laws and regulations may not be enforced in a timely manner by competent administrative or judicial institutions, and provincial-level LHFPCs may have different positions and therefore have different supervision methods as they interpret the laws and regulations in relation to administration of cord blood banks. Although a decision (No. 2004 HuErZhongXingZhong256) made on December 6, 2004 by Shanghai No. 2 Intermediate People’s Court, which can be accessed on the official website of Shanghai No. 2 Intermediate People’s Court (http://www.hshfy.sh.cn:8081/flws/text.jsp?pa=ad3N4aD0xNzE0MDUmdGFoPaOoMjAwNKOpu6a2/tbQ0NDW1dfWtdoyNTa6xSZ3ej0Pdcssz) held that operators that conduct cord blood collection and supply activities without licenses will be ordered to shut down by the authorities, we cannot assure you that there will not be competitors without licenses operating in our target markets. These competitors may include medical institutions having a hematology specialty, general blood stations, institutions which preserve biological tissues (i.e. sperm bank), hospital blood clinic division, research institutions, and commercial institutions or organizations. Alternatively, there can be no assurance that operators of the licensed cord blood banks in other regions (outside Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang) will not compete with us in our target markets, or otherwise pose competition against us with other unfair methods. If the above circumstances do occur, we may not be able to obtain timely and effective protection from the government and have to deal with such unfair competition from such operators, which may result in the loss of the opportunity to explore the potential market, or even a decrease or loss of our existing market demand. In any such case, our operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our expected growth and enlarged business. We anticipate that further expansion will be required in order for us to capitalize on the opportunities available in the cord blood banking industry. Our growth strategy may not be successful for the following reasons: · Our ability to obtain additional capital for growth is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including our operating results, our financial condition, capital market perception, general market conditions for capital raising activities by healthcare companies, and economic conditions in China. · Our profitability will be adversely affected by the additional costs and expenses associated with the operation of new facilities, increased marketing and sales support activities, experimenting on electronic and mobile platform to accommodate new consumer behavior, technological improvement projects, the recruitment of new employees, the upgrading of our managerial, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and the training and management of our growing employee base. · The increased scale of operation will present our management with challenges associated with operating an enlarged business, including dedication of substantially more time and resources in operating and managing cord blood banks located in more than one geographic location in China, in ensuring regulatory compliance and in continuing to manage and grow the business. We do not know whether our revenues will grow at all or grow rapidly enough to absorb the capital and expenses necessary for its growth. It is difficult to assess the extent of capital and expenses necessary for our growth and their impact on our operating results. Failure to manage our growth and enlarged business effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our prospects may be adversely affected if there are no new developments in medical science to overcome some of the current technical and therapeutic limitations on the use of cord blood in medical treatment. Cord blood therapy is still at an early stage of development, with the first successful cord blood transplant occurring only in 1988. Cord blood therapy needs to overcome various technical obstacles before it can become an established medical practice. Cord blood therapy currently has the following limitations: · Cord blood transplants may be riskier than other available treatments. Stem cells in cord blood are more primitive than those in bone marrow or peripheral blood. For this reason, the engraftment process takes longer with cord blood, leaving the patient vulnerable to a fatal infection for a longer period of time. Further, a patient’s own stem cells either “often may” or “usually would” not be the safest or most effective source of stem cells for medical treatment, especially in cases of childhood cancers or genetic disorders, potentially making it preferable to use the cord blood units donated by healthy individuals instead of the cord blood units collected upon the patient’s birth. 11 Table of Contents · Due to the fact that cord blood therapy is a fairly new medical procedure with limited empirical data regarding its application, the long-term viability of cryogenically frozen cord blood has yet to be firmly established and the effectiveness of cord blood therapy remains to be proved. Therefore, medical practitioners may have reservations regarding the usefulness of cord blood therapy. · A typical cord blood harvest only contains enough stem cells to treat a large child or small adult (weighing approximately 100 pounds). Although large-sized adults have had successful cord blood transplants in clinical trials, either by growing the cells in a laboratory prior to transplant or by transplanting more than one cord blood unit at a time, such technology has not yet matured to be applied in general medical practice for commercial use. Cord blood therapy may never become an established medical practice. If the perceived utility of cord blood therapy declines, our prospects will be materially adversely affected. The profitability of our business is subject to market acceptance of cord blood banking in China. Growing market acceptance of cord blood banking services is critical to our future success. It is, however, difficult to predict whether we will be successful in generating additional consumer interest and confidence in the value of our services. Cord blood banking is a relatively new precautionary healthcare concept among the Chinese population. To many of our target subscribers, our services are novel and represent a departure from conventional healthcare spending. Cord blood banking may be unattractive to some from a costs-and-benefits perspective. We have made substantial capital investments in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang, and expect to incur substantial capital investments in our potential markets in the future. If we are unable to penetrate our existing and future markets by attracting new subscribers due to lack of market acceptance of cord blood banking in China, we would not be able to generate profits from our business. Changes in the cord blood banking industry dynamics and technologies could render our services uncompetitive or obsolete, which could cause our revenues to decline. The cord blood banking industry is evolving and may become increasingly competitive. We believe that a variety of cryopreservation technologies are under development by other companies. Our facilities may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. Other cord blood banks may have better technologies than ours for preserving the cord blood units collected upon childbirth to facilitate future harvest of stem cells contained in the cord blood. To effectively compete in the future, we may need to invest significant financial resources to keep pace with technological advances in the cord blood banking industry. Any significant capital outlay, however, may adversely affect our profitability because we may not be able to pass the costs onto our existing subscribers. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance our infrastructure to keep up with technological developments in the healthcare industry. Failure to respond rapidly to changing technologies could have a material and adverse impact on our financial and operational performance. Suppliers of equipment and consumables necessary for the examination, processing, collection and preservation of cord blood stem cells may become limited, which could adversely affect our operations. We keep adequate level of equipment and consumables in our laboratories for the examination, processing, collection and preservation of cord blood stem cells for us to handle new subscribers within a certain period of time. We also maintain, whenever available, multiple suppliers for our equipment and consumables. However, the number of equipment and consumables suppliers within the cord blood banking industry may become limited, while some of them may decide to exit the industry, leaving us with even more limited suppliers to choose from. Without adequate or sufficient equipment and consumables, we may not be able to handle all potential subscribers and our operations and financial performance will be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain and strengthen our service platform, our new subscriber sign-ups may decline and our growth may be impaired. Sales and marketing activities are conducted by our own direct sales force through a network of collaborating hospitals. As of March 31, 2015, we have collaborative relationships with 336 major hospitals in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang. We conduct a significant portion of our sales and marketing activities through these hospitals and rely on them for cord blood collection. Our ability to maintain and strengthen our relationships with these hospitals is critical to our success and will be affected by the following: · For the year ended March 31, 2015, the top ten of these hospitals handled the collection procedures for approximately 18.0% of our new subscribers, and the top hospital accounting for 3.0% of our new subscribers. We expect that a substantial portion of our collection procedures will continue to be generated by a relatively small group of collaborating hospitals that may change from year to year. There is no assurance that the hospitals will continue to collaborate with us at the same levels as in prior years or such relationships will continue. 12 Table of Contents · As part of our growth plan, we expect to increase the number of collaborating hospitals in Guangdong and Zhejiang and further strengthen our relationships with the collaborating hospitals in our existing platform. We have limited experience in managing a large service platform in Guangdong and Zhejiang. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or develop our relationships with various hospitals. The expansion of our service platform is also likely to require a significant investment of financial resources and management efforts, and the benefits, if any, that we gain from such an expansion may not be sufficient to generate an adequate return on our investment. If we fail to do so, our sales could fail to grow or could even decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if a significant number of our subscribers terminate their contracts with us prior to the end of a typical contract period of 18 years. The contracts we entered into with our subscribers are typically for a period of 18 years. The contract period may be shorter than 18 years if the cord blood unit stored with us is needed for transplants by the child or a family member. The contract period may also be shorter than 18 years if our subscribers terminate their contracts with us prior to the end of 18 years for any reason. No penalties will be imposed for early termination. This effectively results in an annual election by our subscribers to renew their subscription contracts for storage services, which may result in more of our subscribers terminating the contract prior to the end of 18 years. In the event of termination by our subscribers prior to the end of 18 years, we are unable to continue to collect storage fees on an annual basis. Although we have not experienced early termination by a significant number of our subscribers in the past, there is no guarantee that all of our subscribers will fulfill their contract obligations by continuing to pay storage fees on an annual basis for a period of 18 years. If we experience early termination by a significant number of our subscribers prior to the end of a typical contract period of 18 years, we will lose revenues from storage fees payable by these subscribers for the remaining contract period. If this occurs, our revenues will decrease and our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our relatively limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to predict our future prospects and results of operations. We have a relatively limited operating history. Although Nuoya obtained the license for its cord blood bank in June 2006, Nuoya was acquired by us in May 2007. Furthermore, we established the 90% owned subsidiary Lukou and acquired the right to operate the cord blood bank in the Zhejiang province during the year ended March 31, 2011. As such, we have a relatively limited operating history upon which the viability and sustainability of our business may be evaluated. For example, due to the uncertainties associated with government policies in relation to granting cord blood banking licenses in China, we abandoned construction of the two cord blood banks and incurred an impairment loss of RMB13.5 million in the year ended March 31, 2006. We cannot assure you that we will not incur losses in the foreseeable future. Our future prospects should be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties we may face in managing a relatively new healthcare service in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · ensure that there will only be one license in each of Beijing, Guangdong, Zhejiang and Shandong; · maintain relationships with an extensive network of collaborating hospitals; · reduce our dependence on a small geographical area and diversify our market and subscriber base; · respond to changes in China regulatory environment; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; · secure necessary financing to support our business activities; and · respond to rapid technological advances inherent in the cord blood banking industry. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In particular, as most of our expenses are fixed in the near future or incurred in advance of anticipated revenues, we may not be able to modify our business plan in time to address any shortfall in revenues and profits. 13 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk of a deterioration or sudden dramatic decline in our reputation among our target subscribers due to failure in the performance of our cord blood banks. Our reputation among clients and the medical community is extremely important to our success. Our future success depends on acknowledging and actively monitoring the concerns of our target subscribers, regulatory agencies, civil society groups and non-government organizations. Failure to take appropriate consideration of legitimate corporate responsibility issues in our day-to-day operations could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business prospects. In particular: · To retain adequate sterility and stem cell viability, cord blood deposits in our cord blood banks are stored at minus 196 degrees Celsius continuously in liquid nitrogen tanks. To the extent the storage environment of our cord blood deposits is disrupted or impaired due to any software, hardware or equipment failure, our target subscribers may lose confidence in our services. · Our subscribers and donors provide us with extensive personal data, which are stored in our database. Any leakage of such information could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our ability to attract new subscribers and donors. Any problems with our services, if publicized in the media or otherwise, could negatively impact our reputation and the cord blood banking industry in China. Similarly, inappropriate or inadequate communication following a major crisis, such as a major operational incident, breach of law or ethics or leak of market-sensitive confidential information, could quickly and seriously impair our reputation. Depending on the nature of such a major crisis, effective communication may not mitigate serious damage to our reputation and may render us subject to criminal and civil prosecution or class action suits by shareholders and other interested parties. Any of these risks can have a material adverse impact on our business. Our subscriber database is stored on our computer system. We maintain database security to protect such database and information stored from leakage or any unauthorized or unintended activities; however, our database may be hacked and our reputation would be adversely affected. We store subscribers’ information on our computer system and maintain database security to protect the database and prevent leakage of subscribers’ personal data. The security system is regularly updated and tested to cope with fast-changing technologies; however, if unauthorized persons successfully hacked into our database and steal subscribers’ information for illegal or improper purposes, our reputation and our ability to attract new subscriber sign-ups may be materially adversely affected and we will be subject to litigation and potential damages liable to subscribers. We treat cord blood units abandoned by our former subscribers as donated property and release such units to our cord blood inventory available for patients in need of transplants. This practice may subject us to criticism that could damage our reputation. In addition to subscription services, we accept and preserve cord blood units donated by the general public and deliver matched cord blood units for a fee to patients in need of transplants. For subscribers who cease subscription for our services at the end of 18 years or who fail to pay subscription fees, we have the right under the subscription contracts to treat the cord blood units stored as donated property and release such units to our cord blood inventory for patients in need of transplants. Although we have the right to do so, there are so far no cord blood units of our subscribers being released to our cord blood inventory. We require our employees to fully inform all prospective subscribers of this policy, and our subscribers are required to give their consent to this policy when subscribing for our services. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, JunZeJun Law Offices, consent of this nature is enforceable under PRC law. In the event of a dispute relating to the ownership of the cord blood units abandoned by our former subscribers, it is possible that a court may rule in favor of our former subscribers based on considerations of fairness and equity regardless of the fact that we have contractual rights under the subscription contracts to treat cord blood units abandoned by our former subscribers as donated properties and release such units to our cord blood inventory available for patients in need of transplants. If this occurs, we may be forced to return the cord blood units or continue to store the cord blood units for the benefit of subscribers who do not fulfill their payment obligations. If the cord blood units abandoned by our former subscribers are already used by patients in need of transplants and are no longer available to our former subscribers or their family members who are in need of transplants, we may be required to pay them substantial monetary damages. Based on information available to us, treating cord blood units abandoned by former subscribers and releasing such units as inventory available to patients in need of transplants is a common practice followed by cord blood banking operators in China. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that we will not become the subject of negative publicity resulting from this business practice, whether due to failure by our employees to duly notify our subscribers of this contract provision, ethical issues underlying this business practice or other reasons. If this business practice receives negative media attention, our reputation and our ability to attract new subscriber sign-ups may be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks related to our business, and our insurance costs may increase significantly. Our cord blood banks and other infrastructure in our facilities are vulnerable to damages or interruption from fire, flood, equipment failure, break-ins, typhoons and similar events. We do not have back-up facilities or a formal disaster recovery plan. Consequently, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored cord blood units. Currently, we maintain insurance coverage of RMB50.0 million ($8.1 million) to cover our liabilities arising from collection, testing and processing of cord blood units and an additional RMB213.5 million ($34.4 million) in aggregate to cover liabilities arising from storage of donated cord blood units in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang. We also maintain property insurance policies for facilities, machinery and office equipment for our Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang operations to cover damages from accidents. However, we do not maintain any property insurance policies covering losses due to fire, earthquake, flood and other disasters, nor do we maintain business interruption or cyber security related insurance. Under our insurance policies, we will be entitled to insurance payments equal to losses arising from the destruction or loss of cord blood units stored by subscribers in the event that we are required to provide such units according to our contractual obligations to our subscribers who need such units for transplants; provided, however, the payments to which we are entitled in each incident are limited to RMB200,000 ($32,263) per person and RMB10.0 million ($1.6 million) in the aggregate. While we believe that we maintain adequate insurance, our business and prospects could nonetheless be adversely affected in the event of problems in our operations, for the following reasons: · Cord blood banking is an emerging business in China. We could have underestimated our insurance needs and may not have sufficient insurance to cover losses above and beyond the limits on our policies. In particular, our subscription contract limits our liability to an amount equal to twice the fees paid by the subscriber, and our insurance policies are procured with reference to this clause. If the enforceability of this clause is successfully challenged by a subscriber, any judgment against us may exceed the policy limit of our liability insurance. · Depending on the severity of the incident, any damage or destruction of the cord blood units in our custody could potentially expose us to significant liability from our subscribers, and could affect our ability to continue to provide cord blood banking services. A substantial portion of our losses in such a case will not be covered by our insurance. · Under the PRC Tort Liability Law, the loss or damage to the cord blood units would be identified as an infringement to personal rights and interests for which the subscribers may claim for the compensation for mental damage. In addition, because the loss or damage to the cord blood units would be a potentially unique and perhaps irreplaceable potential therapeutic loss for which money damages would be difficult to quantify, the liability cap stipulated in our subscription contracts may not be supported by PRC courts and the subscribers may be compensated in accordance with the actual loss or the damage they suffered. We therefore cannot be sure to what extent we could be found liable, in any given scenario, for damages suffered by a subscriber as a result of harm or loss of a cord blood unit. If the amount of compensation for the said mental damage or the actual loss or damage is found to be huge, our financial conditions may be materially adversely affected. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain insurance with adequate coverage for liability or risks arising from any of our services on acceptable terms. Even if the insurance is adequate, insurance premiums could increase significantly which could result in higher costs to us. Depending on the development of the industry, certain potential liability may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our insurance policy in the future which imposes even higher level of risk and uncertainty going forward. If PRC regulators order operators of the licensed cord blood banks in China to cease their fee-based commercial cord blood banking operations, our results of operations and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. Under the Measures for the Administration of Blood Stations issued by the MOH, or “the Measures”, which became effective on March 1, 2006: · for-profit cord blood banks and other for-profit special purpose blood stations are not approved; · neither collection nor supply of cord blood from donors may be conducted for the purpose of making a profit; · the purchase and sale of cord blood units donated by the public is prohibited; and · cord blood banks are prohibited from collecting or providing cord blood without a duly obtained Blood Station Operation License issued by the provincial-level DOH. 15 Table of Contents Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang licenses were either renewed or issued by the relevant provincial-level DOHs after the Measures became effective on March 1, 2006. The cord blood bank operated by Jiachenhong, our operating subsidiary in Beijing, obtained its first cord blood banking license from the MOH in September 2002. In June 2007, June 2010 and April 2013, the DOH in Beijing renewed the license for the cord blood bank operated by us for an additional three years. The cord blood bank operated by Nuoya, our operating subsidiary in Guangdong, obtained its first cord blood banking license from the MOH in June 2006. In May 2009, May 2012 and May 2015, the DOH in Guangdong renewed the license for the cord blood bank operated by us for an additional three years. The cord blood bank operated by Lukou, our operating subsidiary in Zhejiang, obtained its first cord blood banking license from the MOH in September 2010. In September 2013, the DOH in Zhejiang renewed the license for the cord blood bank operated by us for an additional three years. All the operators of the licensed cord blood banks in China have been providing fee-based commercial cord blood banking services to fee-paying subscribers in conjunction with cord blood banking services provided to the public. We believe that the NHFPC and the LHFPCs in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang are aware of fee-based commercial cord blood banking services in these regions, as they have inspected cord blood bank facilities from time to time. In addition, our license application materials submitted to the LHFPCs in Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang contained information about our subscription services to subscribers. Although the above facts indicate that the NHFPC and the LHFPCs have been continuously supervising Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang cord blood banks, which collect cord blood units donated by the public and provide fee-based commercial cord blood banking services, there is a lack of a clear, consistent and well-developed regulatory framework for the cord blood banking industry in China as well as a lack of formal clarifications of policies or positions by the NHFPC and the LHFPCs on how they interpret, administer and enforce the regulations in light of the ambiguities under the current regulatory environment. We cannot assure you that the PRC government and the competent health authorities will continue their current regulatory practice and not prohibit provision of for-profit subscription services. In the event that the PRC government and the competent health authorities were to change their regulatory position and prohibit companies or any other entities in China, including us, from operating for-profit subscription businesses or acting as operators of cord blood banks, we may have to terminate our business or change our business model. Further, if we were required to apply for a special or a separate permit, license or authorization for the provision of such services, we may have to suspend our business to apply for the special or a separate permit, license or authorization. We may be subject to administrative penalties and/or claims for operation without a license. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the license. We may be forced to shut down our business if we are unable to obtain the license. Also, there is no assurance that we will be able to apply for and obtain a new approval or license to expand our business. If any of the above circumstances occur, our business and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Similarly, if the NHFPC or the relevant LHFPC order the operator of Shandong Cord Blood Bank to cease fee-based commercial cord blood banking operations, Qilu’s operations will be severely affected, which in turn may materially adversely affect our investment. Our business may be materially adversely affected if we are to be prohibited from providing collection, testing, storage and matching services in connection with cord blood under the Industrial Catalogue Guiding Foreign Investment, or the “Catalogue”. Prior to December 1, 2007, foreign investment in China was subject to regulation by the Catalogue promulgated in November 2004 by the National Development and Reform Commission, or the “NDRC”, and the Ministry of Commerce, or the “MOC”. On October 31, 2007, the NDRC and the MOC revised the Catalogue, which became effective on December 1, 2007. The Catalogue was amended on December 24, 2011, which then became effective on January 30, 2012. On March 10, 2015, the NDRC and the MOC revised the Catalogue, which became effective on April 10, 2015. Under the Catalogue promulgated in 2004, there were no prohibitions against investment by foreign enterprises in the cord blood banking industry in China. Under the Catalogue revised in 2007, 2011 and 2015, however, foreign enterprises are prohibited from engaging in stem cell and gene diagnosis and treatment technology development and application. Since the latest revised Catalogue still does not clearly define the scope of such prohibited business, it is uncertain whether it prohibits diagnosis and treatment technology development and application of stem cells only or it prohibits all stem-cell-related technology development and application. Therefore, it is unclear whether our cord blood banking services will be construed as a prohibited business under the Catalogue revised in 2015. 16 Table of Contents We have consulted with our PRC counsel and found no evidence which leads to the conclusion that the subscription services provided by our cord blood banks violate the Catalogue revised in 2007, 2011 and 2015. We have also communicated and consulted with the MOH and the relevant DOHs regarding the legality of cord blood banking services provided by our cord blood banks subsequent to the effectiveness of the Catalogue revised in 2007, 2011 and 2015. So far, neither the Company nor our cord blood banks has received any negative comment, query, notice of prohibition, notice of termination of the service, administration sanction or penalty due to the cord blood banking service deemed as non-compliance with the relevant PRC laws and regulations or violation of the terms set forth in the blood station licenses. Moreover, all the annual inspections, payments of the paid-in capital and change of the legal representative of our PRC subsidiaries, after the Catalogue revised in 2007, 2011 and 2015 became effective, have been legally approved, registered and filed with authorized Industry and Commerce Administration Bureau. Also, our Beijing Cord Blood Bank, Guangdong Cord Blood Bank and Zhejiang Cord Blood Bank renewed their cord blood banking licenses in April 2013, May 2015 and September 2013, respectively, from the relevant authorities after the Catalogue revised in 2007, 2011 and 2015 was already effective. None of Jiachenhong, the Beijing Cord Blood Bank, Nuoya, the Guangdong Cord Blood Bank, or Lukou, the Zhejiang Cord Blood Bank, encountered any major obstacle, hurdle or query during the renewal process of the cord blood banking license or business license. Although the Catalogue revised in 2007, 2011 and 2015 has no retroactive force and foreign enterprises approved to operate in China before their business becomes prohibited under the Catalogue revised in 2007, 2011 and 2015 should be able to continue with their business in accordance with the approval they previously obtained, there is no assurance that such enterprises will continue to be able to renew their licenses in the future if the government authorities consider that renewal of their licenses would contravene the Catalogue revised in 2015. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain necessary approvals for our business expansion or acquisitions from the government authorities under the Catalogue revised in 2015. We also may not be able to extend the operating periods of our existing PRC subsidiaries, including Jiachenhong, Nuoya and Lukou. Jiachenhong has an operating period of twenty years and the cord blood banking license is subject to renewal in May 2016. Nuoya has an operating period of thirty years and the cord blood banking license is subject to renewal in May 2018. Lukou has an operating period of twenty years and the cord blood banking license is subject to renewal in September 2016. The contracts Jiachenhong, Nuoya and Lukou currently enter into with their subscribers are typically for a period of 18 years. If Jiachenhong and Lukou are unable to extend their respective operating periods, these respective operating period will not cover the period of the contracts entered into after September 2005 and December 2012, respectively, and the relevant entity may have to be transferred to domestic companies or go into liquidation upon the expiration of its respective operating period. In addition, after the Catalogue revised in 2015 has been issued, we may not be able to obtain approval from the relevant approval authorities for increasing the registered capital of Jiachenhong, Nuoya and Lukou, subscribing to the increased registered capital of Jiachenhong, Nuoya and Lukou, or making contributions for such capital with foreign currency sourced from overseas. If any of the above occurs, we may be required to change our business model or otherwise cease our business operations. Our business activities are subject to regulations that may impose significant costs and restrictions. As the healthcare industry in China is monitored closely by regulatory authorities, our operations are constrained in many aspects. In particular: · The regulatory framework on the cord blood banking industry may not be sufficiently comprehensive to address all ranges of issues in connection with operation in the cord blood banking industry and to respond to the changes and developments in the industry. Before the existing laws and regulations are amended, PRC government authorities sometimes may establish internal policy guidance and follow this guidance in practice, and this policy guidance could vary among different LHFPCs and be inconsistent with written regulations. · Stringent regulations and standards apply to various aspects of our operations, including workers’ safety, the maintenance of premises, and the handling and disposal of waste materials and hazardous substances. Failure to maintain the required standards can result in fines, an order to suspend the operations of our facilities until corrective measures are implemented or the revocation of our operating permits for such facilities or the denial of permission for their renewal. We comply with these regulations. A failure in complying with these regulations may have a material adverse effect on our operations. · All collection devices and reagents used in our handling of cord blood units are regulated by the State Food and Drug Administration, or “SFDA”, and we require our suppliers to comply with all applicable regulations. The SFDA could at any time require our suppliers to obtain prior approval or additional clearance with regard to the materials, reagents, appliances, consumables, devices or containers which we are currently using or prepare to use. Such requirements may affect the shipment timing of our suppliers which in turn materially adversely affecting our operations. · We are required by PRC law to hire professional medical waste disposal firms to collect and dispose of medical waste produced in the process of collection, transportation, testing, processing and cryopreservation of cord blood. Such compliance costs may put extra strain on our financial resources. 17 Table of Contents · The government may change our licensing policy to require separate licenses be obtained for each type of cord blood banking services provided. If we are unable to obtain such approvals, licenses or permits for any reason, we may be required to terminate the provision of the service requiring license, in which case our business may be materially adversely affected. Regulations of cord blood banking services in China are still evolving and there are uncertainties in relation to the application and interpretation of the relevant regulations. We may be required to devote significant time and attention to maintaining our compliance with the applicable requirements, and our compliance costs may increase in future periods. The terms of our convertible debt financings include provisions that may limit our flexibility or require us to repay or refinance such debt, which may not be practicable depending upon the circumstances. On April 27, 2012, we completed the sale of $65 million in aggregate principal amount of 7% senior unsecured convertible notes, which notes are convertible into ordinary shares at a conversion price of $2.838 per share, to KKRCHL. The notes are senior unsecured obligations, mature on April 27, 2017 and are not redeemable prior to maturity at our option. Events of default under the notes include the suspension from trading or failure of our ordinary shares to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) or another eligible market for a period of ten consecutive trading days or for more than an aggregate of thirty trading days in any 365-day period, except where such suspension or failure of the ordinary shares to be listed is due to a technological problem and the occurrence of an event or series of events that has or reasonably could be expected to have, a material adverse effect if such consequences have not been cured within thirty days. Should any such event occur, the occurrence of which is likely to be outside of our control, the holders of the notes may be entitled to repayment in full of such indebtedness, which we may be unable to repay and would need to seek a waiver from such holders, which they may be unwilling to provide. Similarly, so long as the investment value maintained by KKRCHL exceeds $20 million (calculated with reference to the notes and any ordinary shares issued upon conversion thereof), KKRCHL will be entitled to designate one of the members of our Board of Directors, have access to certain of our confidential information and be entitled to a right of first refusal regarding future financings by us. In addition, so long as such investment value is maintained by KKRCHL, we will not, without the affirmative consent of KKRCHL: · change the scope of the principal business of the Company; approve the development of any new line of business; or enter into any business other than such principal business; · except for any amendment required by law, amend, modify or waive any provisions of its charter documents which may reasonably be deemed to affect the notes or the rights of the holders under the notes; · acquire or dispose of assets other than in the ordinary course of business; · enter into any joint venture or partnership with, or otherwise acquire any interest in the equity securities of, any person other than a wholly-owned subsidiary; · change the size or composition of our Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of any subsidiary or any committee thereof; · approve any budget or business plan of the Company or any material subsidiary or any modification thereto; · approve the employment or termination of, or compensation agreements for any senior officer, or determine the compensation (including without limitation cash and stock option compensation) of any director or director of a subsidiary or any member of a committee of our Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of any subsidiary; · incur any indebtedness (other than amounts payable under the notes) such that the outstanding indebtedness is in excess of $22 million (or its equivalent in other currencies) in the aggregate for the Company on a consolidated basis; · change our auditors to a firm not considered one of the “Big Four” accounting firms as of the date hereof, or any successor thereto; or · redeem or repurchase of any equity securities of the Company or any subsidiary except pursuant to our existing repurchase program. 18 Table of Contents On October 3, 2012, we completed the sale of $50 million in aggregate principal amount of 7% senior unsecured convertible notes, which notes are convertible into ordinary shares at a conversion price of $2.838 per share, to Golden Meditech, which resold such notes to Magnum Opus and Cordlife Singapore in November 2014. The notes are senior unsecured obligations, mature on October 3, 2017 and are not redeemable prior to maturity at our option. Events of default under the notes include the suspension from trading or failure of our ordinary shares to be listed on the NYSE or another eligible market for a period of ten consecutive trading days or for more than an aggregate of thirty trading days in any 365-day period, except where such suspension or failure of the ordinary shares to be listed is due to a technological problem and the occurrence of an event or series of events that has or reasonably could be expected to have, a material adverse effect if such consequences have not been cured within thirty days. Should any such event occur, the occurrence of which is likely to be outside of our control, the holders of the notes may be entitled to repayment in full of such indebtedness, which we may be unable to repay and would need to seek a waiver from such holders, which they may be unwilling to provide. In addition, we will not, without the affirmative consent of such holders: · change the scope of the principal business of the Company; or enter into any business other than such principal business that will adversely affect the Company’s ability to carry out its obligations under the notes; · except for any amendment required by law, amend, modify or waive any provisions of its charter documents which may reasonably be deemed to affect the notes or the rights of the holders under the notes; · dissolve, liquidate, reorganize or restructure or undertake a recapitalization or similar transaction; · merge, amalgamate or consolidate with any other entity; or · commence any case, proceeding or other action (1) under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law seeking to have an order of relief entered with respect to it or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding up, liquidation, dissolution, composition or other relief with respect to it or its debts or (2) seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or all or any substantial part of its property; make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or admit in writing its inability to pay its debts when they become due. Compliance with these provisions may limit our flexibility in running our business as in previous years and could result in the loss of opportunities for future growth. In May 2015, we were informed that, in connection with a proposed go-private transaction, Golden Meditech had entered into agreements to purchase all outstanding convertible notes previously issued by the Company from the current holders thereof, subject to certain closing conditions. Unauthorized use of our brand name by third parties may adversely affect our business. We consider our brand name critical to our success. Due to the nature of our business, we do not have any patents, administrative protection or trade secrets covering our use of cord blood collection, processing, storage or retrieval technologies. Our continued ability to differentiate ourselves from the other cord blood banking operators and other potential new entrants would depend substantially on our ability to preserve the value of our brand name. We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees, subscribers and business partners to protect the value of our brand name. In particular, we have completed the trademark registration process and have been licensed by the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce of the People’s Republic of China to use our two trademarks, of which the registration numbers are 4666178 and 4666582. However, there can be no assurance that the measures we take in this regard are adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our brand name. Among others, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our brand name or copycat in a timely manner because our ability to determine whether other parties have infringed our brand name is generally limited to information from publicly available sources. In order to preserve the value of our brand name, we may need to take legal actions against third parties. Nonetheless, because the validity, enforceability and scope of trademark protection in the PRC are uncertain and still evolving, we may not be successful in litigation. Further, future litigation may also result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and disrupt our business. 19 Table of Contents Our strategic partnership with CBB and Cordlife Singapore may not be successful. Cordlife was a provider of cord blood banking services with operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia and the Philippines. Before the completion of the restructuring of Cordlife, we paid an aggregate of AUD12.4 million in exchange for a total of 24,366,666 shares in Cordlife. In June 2011, shareholders of Cordlife approved a capital reduction scheme by way of distribution in specie. The scheme involved a spin off of Cordlife’s more mature cord blood banking businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong. The restructuring and distribution in specie were subsequently completed and effective on June 30, 2011. After the restructuring of Cordlife as of June 30, 2011, we owned a total 24,366,666 shares in both CBB and Cordlife Singapore. Before the restructuring, operations of the whole group were conducted under Cordlife. After the restructuring, developing cord blood banking businesses in Indonesia, India and the Philippines were operated under CBB, which was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange, while the more mature cord blood banking businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong were operated under Cordlife Singapore, which was listed on the Singapore Exchange on March 29, 2012. In June 2013, Cordlife Singapore completed the acquisition of the cord blood and cord tissue banking businesses in Indonesia, India and the Philippines from CBB. After the acquisition, Cordlife Singapore now operates cord blood banking businesses in both mature markets such as Singapore and Hong Kong, and developing markets such as Indonesia, India and the Philippines. In December 2013, CBB acquired an unlisted company which engaged in the provision of funeral and related services, and thereafter, CBB’s principal activities changed to the provision of funeral and related services. During the year ended March 31, 2015, we acquired certain Cordlife Singapore shares in the open market. As of March 31, 2015, we owned a total of 8,122,222 (after CBB share consolidation) and 25,516,666 shares in CBB and Cordlife Singapore, which represents a 11.4% and a 9.8% equity interest, respectively. There are risks associated with Cordlife Singapore’s operations, such as changes in regulation and different consumer appetite toward cord blood banking. There are also significant risks associated with CBB’s newly acquired business as it may not have the necessary experience to operate the funeral and related services business. We may thus be unable to realize satisfactory return on our investments in Cordlife Singapore and CBB. In May 2011, we entered into a marketing collaboration agreement with Cordlife HK, a subsidiary of Cordlife Singapore. Under the agreement, we will help to promote and provide referral services to potential clients who have interest in delivering babies in Hong Kong where Cordlife HK operates, in return for a minimal fee. As of the date of this report, no material development has been reported. In February 2014, we entered a strategic alliance agreement with Cordlife Singapore in relation to the provision of human postnatal umbilical cord tissues storage services in the PRC. Pursuant to the agreement, we will obtain a sub-license right for the use of cellular technology from Cordlife Singapore, which was granted by CordLabs Asia Pte. Ltd. to Cordlife Singapore, in exchange for a minimal fee. Thereafter, both the Company and Cordlife Singapore will provide new services to our clients in the PRC. We cannot assure you the market will accept these new services and accordingly the strategic alliance may not be successful or generate satisfactory returns. Our strategic holdings in CBB and Cordlife Singapore may adversely affect our financial performance. We continuously review and monitor our strategic investment in Cordlife (CBB and Cordlife Singapore after the restructuring). The market value of our investment in Cordlife declined during the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Having considered the significance of the accumulated decline in the fair market value of the ordinary shares of Cordlife, the period of time during which market value of the shares had been below cost, and the market condition at that time, the management determined that the impairment loss on the investment up to December 31, 2008 was no longer not other-than-temporary. As a result, accumulated impairment loss amounting to RMB37.4 million was recognized in earnings during the year ended March 31, 2009 and the market value as of December 31, 2008 formed a new cost basis of our investment in Cordlife. As of March 31, 2015, we owned a 11.4% equity interest in CBB and a 9.8% equity interest in Cordlife Singapore. Due to an increase in the market value of the ordinary shares of Cordlife Singapore, the total unrealized holding gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income as of March 31, 2015 amounted to RMB95.8 million ($15.4 million). Should the value of shares in CBB or Cordlife Singapore experience a significant decline and we determine that the impairment is other-than-temporary, a further write-down of investment will have to be recognized in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and this will adversely affect our financial performance. 20 Table of Contents If demand for our matching services is significantly different from our management’s expectations, the valuation of donated cord blood units could be materially impacted, which could affect our financial performance. A significant portion of our inventories, which consist of cord blood units donated by the public, consists of the handling costs attributable to the testing, processing and preservation of donated cord blood units. The handling costs include direct material costs and direct labor costs incurred in handling of donated cord blood units. Cost of inventories also comprises an allocation of production overheads. Donated cord blood units are valued at the lower of cost or market using the weighted average cost method. Since we do not expect to recognize revenue from such inventories within 12 months from the balance sheet date, we classify donated cord blood units as non-current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. The carrying value of our donated cord blood units was RMB58.2 million ($9.4 million) as of March 31, 2015. Our management periodically reviews quantities of donated cord blood stored in our banks to determine if a write-down on inventories is necessary based on estimated demand for our matching services and other industry knowledge. We did not record any write-downs on our inventories for the years ended March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015. If demand for our matching services is significantly different from our management’s expectations, the valuation of donated cord blood units could be materially impacted. We may have anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents that discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. Certain of these provisions include: · having a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms; · requiring a special resolution, namely the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds (66 and 2/3%) of the votes cast by the shareholders in the meeting convened to approve the removal of a director; · providing for filling vacancies on the board only by the vote of the remaining directors or by a special resolution, namely the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds (66 and 2/3%) of the votes cast by the shareholders in the meeting convened to approve such appointment; and · establishing the requirements and procedures for calling special meetings of shareholders, including a provision that provides that a special meeting of shareholders may only be called by a majority of directors, our chairman, or members together holding not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the issued shares. In addition, we have entered into service contracts with senior executive officers on June 30, 2009, namely, Ms. Ting Zheng, Mr. Albert Chen, Ms. Yue Deng, Ms. Rui Arashiyama and Ms. Xin Xu. Each contract is automatically renewed every three years until the death or incapacitation of the senior executive officer unless terminated by either party with notice. If a service contract is terminated by the relevant executive within 30 days following a change of control of our company, the executive will be entitled to (i) all the salary and guaranteed bonuses actually accrued and payable to him/her; (ii) immediate vesting of all of his/her unvested options; and (iii) a severance payment in the amount of $5 million. CCBC may terminate a service contract without cause with at least 30 days’ written notice, in which case the executive will be entitled to (i) all the salary and guaranteed bonuses actually accrued and payable to him/her as the case may be; (ii) the immediate vesting of all of his or her unvested options; and (iii) if the termination is made within two years of a change of control of our company, a severance payment in the amount of $5 million. The aggregate cost of the severance payments that would become payable at the option of the senior executive officers upon a change of control could discourage acquisition bids for CCBC. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire CCBC, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. As of March 31, 2015, Golden Meditech owned 38.3% of CCBC’s outstanding shares, excluding shares owned by us. CCBC’s Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At each of our annual meetings, as a consequence of CCBC’s “staggered” Board of Directors, only a minority of the Board of Directors will be considered for election and Golden Meditech, because of its ownership position, has considerable influence regarding the outcome. 21 Table of Contents As our success depends on several key management personnel, our business may be adversely affected if we fail to retain them. Our success is highly dependent on the retention of the principal members of our management, scientific and sales personnel. In particular, Mr. Yuen Kam, our chairman, and Ms. Ting Zheng, our chief executive officer, and the rest of our senior management team, are critical to our ability to execute our overall business strategy. In addition, several other employees with scientific or other skills are important to the successful development of our business. If any of our key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some competitive advantages, and our operating results may be adversely affected. As qualified personnel are difficult to attract and retain, we have entered into service contracts with key senior executive officers. Each contract will be automatically renewed every three years until the death or incapacitation of the senior executive officer unless terminated by either party with notice. Although these contracts contain non-competition clauses, the restrictions imposed by the clauses may not be adequate to prohibit these key management personnel from competing against us after their departure. If there are any adverse public health developments in China, our business and operations may be severely disrupted. Any prolonged occurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or “SARS”, or other adverse public health developments in China or other regions where we have an operation or presence may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include the ability of our personnel to travel or to promote our services within China or at other regions where we have an operation or presence, loss of marketing channels as hospitals prohibit our sales and marketing personnel from entering and approaching expectant parents within hospital premises, as well as temporary closure of our facilities. In particular, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China in the past, including confirmed human cases. In response, the PRC government has authorized local governments to impose quarantine and other restrictions on movements of people and goods in the event of an epidemic. Any closures or travel or other operational restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global economy could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The global market and economic conditions during the years 2008 through 2010 were unprecedented and challenging, with recessions occurring in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, and the availability and cost of credit contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The difficult economic outlook negatively affected businesses and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. Government responses to these events included partial nationalization of certain industries and enterprises, “bail-out” packages intended to provide liquidity to market participants and several high profile acquisitions and bankruptcies. While global economies initially showed signs of stabilizing, recent turmoil in China’s capital market and economic developments in Greece, China, other countries of Asia and Euro-zones cast doubt on the pace of global economic recovery, which could have lasting effects on our business, our expansion plans and our ability to raise capital required to implement our expansion plans, the extent of which is difficult to predict. The PRC economy also faces challenges. The PRC government has implemented various measures recently to curb inflation and local economic and financial challenges. If economic growth slows down or an economic downturn occurs, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents There is a risk that CCBC will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC”, which could result in adverse consequences to investors. In general, CCBC will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year of CCBC in which either (1) at least 75% of its gross income (including its pro rata share of the gross income of certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of its assets (including its pro rata share of the assets of certain 25% or more owned corporate subsidiaries) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If CCBC is determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) of CCBC that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this report captioned “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — General”) of CCBC’s ordinary shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability upon a sale or other disposition of CCBC’s ordinary shares or the receipt of certain excess distributions from CCBC and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the composition (and estimated values) of the assets and the nature of the income of CCBC and its subsidiaries during CCBC’s taxable year ended March 31, 2015, we do not believe that we will be treated as a PFIC for such year. However, because we have not performed a definitive analysis as to our PFIC status for such taxable year, there can be no assurance with respect to our PFIC status for such taxable year. There also can be no assurance with respect to the status of CCBC as a PFIC for its current taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. Holders of CCBC’s ordinary shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. See the discussion in the section entitled “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules”. In addition, CCBC may need to accommodate the loss to KKRCHL (and, hence, we may be adversely affected) if CCBC is determined to be a PFIC. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit reports included in this annual report may be located in the People’s Republic of China. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the applicable laws of the United States and professional standards. Our operations are principally conducted in the People’s Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. Accordingly, any audit documentation located in China related to our independent registered public accounting firm’s reports included in our filings with the SEC is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit documentation located in China and its related quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against certain PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of these firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. In February 2014, the initial decision was appealed. While under appeal and in February 2015, four of these PRC based accounting firms (the “Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms”) reached a settlement with the SEC. As part of the settlement, each of the Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms agreed to settlement terms that include a censure; undertakings to make a payment to the SEC; procedures and undertakings as to future requests for documents by the SEC; and possible additional proceedings and remedies should those undertakings not be adhered to. If the settlement terms are not adhered to or in the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents If our independent registered public accounting firm was denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ordinary shares from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ordinary shares in the United States. If we grant additional RSUs in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. In February 2011, at our annual general meeting, our shareholders approved an Incentive Plan which has a mandate limit of granting rights to receive ordinary shares not exceeding 10.0% of our issued and outstanding share capital, to directors, officers, employees and/or consultants of CCBC and our subsidiaries. Certain administrative provisions of the Incentive Plan were subsequently amended by our Board of Directors in August 2014. The Incentive Plan is intended to enable the Company to attract, motivate, reward and retain the services of executives, directors and key employees. The Incentive Plan provides for the granting of RSUs, which may vest upon satisfaction of certain conditions set by the Compensation Committee of the Company. As of March 31, 2015, 7,300,000 RSUs had been granted under the Incentive Plan. If we grant additional RSUs in the future, we could incur significant compensation charges and our net income could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Operations in China Changes in political, economic and legal developments in China may adversely affect our business. As we derive substantially all of our revenues in China and substantially all of our assets and operations are in China, our continued growth would depend heavily on China’s general economic condition. The Chinese economy has grown significantly in recent years, especially after China’s accession to the World Trade Organization, or “WTO”, in 2001. We, however, cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that such growth will be steady or in geographic regions or economic sectors to our benefit. A downturn in China’s economic growth or a decline in economic condition may have material adverse effects on our results of operations. Further, we will continue to be affected by the political, social and legal developments of China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has introduced a series of economic and political reforms, including measures designed to effectuate the country’s transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. During such economic and political reforms, a comprehensive system of laws were promulgated, including many new laws and regulations seeking to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. In the past twenty years, the growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across different geographic regions and different economic sectors. In order to stabilize national economic growth, the PRC government adopted a series of macroeconomic policies. These policies include measures that restricted excessive growth and investment in specific sectors of the economy. Also, the PRC government has implemented stimulus responses to the global financial crisis. We cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects that any such measures may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Most of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible for capital account transactions and may be subject to exchange rate volatility. We are exposed to the risks associated with foreign exchange controls and restrictions in China, as our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, which is currently not freely exchangeable. The PRC government imposes control over the convertibility between Renminbi and foreign currencies. Under the PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments for “current account” transactions, including remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, profit distributions, interest and operation-related expenditures, may be made without prior approval but are subject to procedural requirements. Strict foreign exchange control continues to apply to “capital account” transactions, such as direct foreign investment and foreign currency loans. These capital account transactions must be approved by or registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE” or its authorized local branches. Further, any capital contribution by an offshore shareholder to its PRC subsidiaries should be approved by the MOC in China or its local counterparts. We cannot assure you that we are able to meet all of our foreign currency obligations to remit profits out of China or to fund operations in China. 24 Table of Contents On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues concerning the Improvement of the Administration of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or “Circular 142”. On March 30, 2015, SAFE issued the Circular of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange Concerning Reform of the Administrative Approaches to Settlement of Foreign Exchange Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or “Circular 19”, which became effective on June 1, 2015, to regulate the conversion by foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 19 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE shall be managed under the Accounts for FX settlement and pending payment. The expenditure scope of such Account includes: expenditure within the business scope, payment of funds for domestic equity investment and Renminbi deposits, repayment of the Renminbi loans after completed utilization and so forth. A FIE shall truthfully use its capital by itself within the business scope and shall not, directly or indirectly, use its capital or Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital for (i) expenditure beyond its business scope or expenditure prohibited by laws or regulations, (ii) disbursing Renminbi entrusted loans (unless permitted under its business scope), repaying inter-corporate borrowings (including third-party advance) and repaying Renminbi bank loans already refinanced to any third party. Where a FIE, other than a foreign-invested investment company, foreign-invested venture capital enterprise or foreign-invested equity investment enterprise, makes domestic equity investment by transferring its capital in the original currency, it shall obey the current provisions on domestic re-investment. Where such a FIE makes domestic equity investment by its Renminbi conversion, the invested enterprise shall first go through domestic re-investment registration and open a corresponding Accounts for FX settlement and pending payment, and the FIE shall thereafter transfer the conversion to the aforesaid Account according to the actual amount of investment. In addition, according to the Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on Foreign Exchange Administration, which became effective on August 5, 2008, the use of foreign exchange or Renminbi conversion may not be changed without authorization. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring additional cord blood banks in China. Compliance with Circular 19 may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand business. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi and of the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on investments in our ordinary shares. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the U.S. dollar equivalent amount of our revenues and financial condition as well as on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. For instance, a decrease in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of our financial results, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares and the dividends we may pay in the future, if any, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the prices of our common shares. Any further appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may result in significant exchange losses as we convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi. As of March 31, 2015, we had cash denominated in U.S. dollars of approximately $28.2 million. Prior to 1994, Renminbi experienced a significant net devaluation against most major currencies, and there was significant volatility in the exchange rate during certain periods. Upon the execution of the unitary managed floating rate system in 1994, the Renminbi was devalued by 50% against the U.S. dollar. Since 1994, the Renminbi to U.S. dollar exchange rate has largely stabilized. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced that the exchange rate of U.S. dollar to Renminbi would be adjusted from $1 to RMB8.27 to $1 to RMB8.11, and it ceased to peg the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Instead, the Renminbi would be pegged to a basket of currencies, whose components would be adjusted based on changes in market supply and demand under a set of systematic principles. On September 23, 2005, the PRC government widened the daily trading band for Renminbi against non-U.S. dollar currencies from 1.5% to 3.0% to improve the flexibility of the new foreign exchange system. On June 19, 2010, the People’s Bank of China released a statement indicating that they would “proceed further with reform of RMB exchange rate regime and increase the RMB exchange rate flexibility”. On March 17, 2014, the floating band of Renminbi against U.S. dollar was increased from 1% to 2%. Since the adoption of these measures, the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. The Renminbi may be revalued further against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, or may be permitted to enter into a full or limited free float, which may result in an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. China’s legal system is different from those in some other countries. China is a civil law jurisdiction. Under the civil law system, prior court decisions may be cited but do not have binding precedential effect. Although progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade, China’s legal system remains less developed than the legal systems in many other developed countries. Furthermore, because many laws, regulations and legal requirements have been recently adopted, their interpretation and enforcement by the courts and administrative agencies may involve uncertainties. Sometimes, different government departments may have different interpretations. Licenses and permits issued or granted by one government authority may be revoked by a higher government authority at a later time. Government authorities may decline to take action against operators of the unlicensed cord blood banks which may work to the disadvantage of operators of the licensed cord blood banks, including us. The PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which may not be published on a timely manner or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. We may even not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until the time after the violation. Changes in China’s legal and regulatory framework, the promulgation of new laws and possible conflicts between national and provincial regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any litigation in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 25 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into the PRC subsidiaries, limiting our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or “Notice 75”, on October 21, 2005, which became effective as of November 1, 2005 and the operating procedures in May 2007. In July 2014, SAFE issued the Circular on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Overseas Investment and Financing and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Special Purpose Companies, or “Circular 37”, which superseded Notice 75. According to Circular 37, PRC residents (including PRC institutions and individuals) shall, among other things, (i) register with the local SAFE branch regarding offshore enterprises they, for purpose of financing or/and investment, directly established or indirectly control using assets and interests in onshore enterprises or offshore assets or interests they legally possess (“Special Purpose Vehicle”); (ii) PRC residents shall also amend registration regarding changes in the Special Purpose Vehicle, including the basic information of the Special Purpose Vehicle, and material changes such as the increase of capital contribution by PRC individuals, decrease of capital contribution, equity transfer or exchange, merger or division; (iii) amend registration or deregister where, as a result of equity transfer, bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation, expiration of business term, change of personal identity and etc., PRC individuals no longer possess rights and interests in the Special Purpose Vehicles, or where filings are no longer required. Under Circular 37, failure to comply with the registration requirements will result in administrative penalties under Regulations on the Foreign Exchange System of PRC. We have notified and urged our PRC shareholders to make necessary registrations as required under Circular 37, however, since Circular 37 is newly issued, it is unclear how it will be interpreted and implemented by the local branches of SAFE. Therefore, we cannot assure you that all relevant shareholders have made or will make and obtain all registrations required. In addition, under Circular 37; registrations are prerequisites for conducting subsequent businesses. Therefore, the inflow and outflow of funds and the settlement of foreign exchange will be limited should any PRC shareholder fail to make such registration. On November 19, 2012, the SAFE issued the Notice on Further Improving and Adjusting Foreign Exchange Administration Policies on Direct Investment, or the “Notice 59”. The Operating Rules for Foreign Issues with Regard to Direct Investment under Capital Account, or the “Operating Instruction”, an appendix to Notice 59, provides in detail the procedures, required documents and review standard of foreign exchange registration and reverse investment by domestic residents through offshore special purpose vehicles, or “SPVs”, owned or controlled by domestic residents. According to the Operating Instruction, domestic resident individuals shall register with the local SAFE branch where the assets or equities of their domestic enterprises are located. When assets or equity interests of domestic enterprises are located in different areas, such domestic residents shall select a SAFE branch office in the area, where one of the primary domestic enterprises is located, to comprehensively register with. Domestic resident individuals may establish SPVs overseas prior to the registration, however, such SPVs are not allowed to raise funds outbound, change equity interests or engage in reverse investment activity or make other substantial changes in capital or equity interests prior to the completion of the registration. Whenever SPVs change in financing matters, an alteration registration shall be made within 30 working days upon the receipt of the first batch of raised funds. The raised funds without alteration registration shall not be called back and utilized in the form of investment or foreign loan. To date, we have not received any communications from, or had contact with, the PRC government with respect to SAFE Rules. Neither do we have information regarding whether our shareholders who may be subject to SAFE Rules have made necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Rules. However, we have requested our shareholders and beneficial owners who may be subject to SAFE Rules to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Rules. We have advised these shareholders and beneficial owners to comply with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurance that all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who may be PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by SAFE Rules. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with other requirements may subject such shareholders or beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans, including cash of CCBC, to our PRC subsidiaries, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. 26 Table of Contents In January 2007, SAFE promulgated the Detailed Rules for the Implementation of the Measures for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange, and the Operating Rules on the Foreign Exchange Administration of the Evolvement of Domestic Individuals in the Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Share Option Schemes of Overseas Listed Companies, or “Circular 78”. Circular 78 has then been superseded by the Circular of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Issues concerning the Administration of Foreign Exchange Used for Domestic Individuals’ Participation in Equity Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or “Circular 7”, which became effective from February 15, 2012. Under Circular 7, domestic individuals who participate in equity incentive plans of an overseas listed company shall, through the domestic company to which the said company is affiliated, collectively entrust a domestic agency to handle regarding issues and entrust an overseas institution to process the exercise of options, purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or equity, and transfer of proceeds. The domestic agency shall go through the foreign exchange registration procedures with the local office of the SAFE at the place where it is located for all individuals participating in the equity incentive plans and shall submit certain forms to the local office of the SAFE periodically to report and declare such plans. Moreover, any substantial or material change and termination or expiration of the equity incentive plans shall be reported to the local office of the SAFE by the domestic agency within time limitation. In respect of all the proceeds obtained by such employees from the overseas listed company through the equity incentive plans, the domestic agency may convert such proceeds into RMB for all the individuals with the bank and then transfer the proceeds obtained from such conversion to the respective domestic RMB accounts of the domestic individuals. CCBC initiated an Incentive Plan, the participants of which include PRC employees. To implement the Incentive Plan, CCBC established The Magnum Opus International Trust (the “Trust”); and according to the Incentive Plan, the trustee, Magnum Trustee, subscribed the shares. The participants of the Incentive Plan as a class, including PRC employees, are the future beneficiaries of the Trust, and upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, are entitled to the income of the Trust. The Trustee has full discretion and powers in managing and disposing of the shares. As described, the form and structure of the Incentive Plan is not the same with the equity incentive plans under Circular 7, therefore we did not go through the procedures required by Circular 7. However, we cannot assure you that the arrangement of the Incentive Plan will not be identified by relevant authorities as an equity incentive plan under Circular 7, and thus that the procedures required by Circular 7 are applicable. Under such circumstance, we will incur costs to fulfill the procedural requirements, and may also be subject to regulatory measures and administrative sanctions, including, but not limited to fines, imposed by SAFE and its local branches. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and the increase in the enterprise income tax in the PRC could in each case result in a decrease in our profits and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Prior to January 1, 2008, the basic enterprise income tax rate for foreign invested enterprises in the PRC was 33.0%, while the PRC government provided various incentives, including reduced tax rates, to foreign-invested enterprises and domestic companies operating in a national level economic and technological development zone. Jiachenhong is registered and operating in a national level economic and technological development zone, and was entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15.0%. In addition, Jiachenhong qualified for a tax holiday during which it was entitled to an exemption from enterprise income tax for two years commencing from its first profit-making year of operation and a 50% reduction of enterprise income tax for the following three years. In connection therewith, Jiachenhong was fully exempt from income tax in each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 and had been subject to enterprise income tax at a reduced rate of 7.5% since the year ended December 31, 2006. The tax holiday expired on December 31, 2008. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress approved and promulgated a new tax law, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or “EIT Law”, which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the new tax law, foreign-invested enterprises and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice of the State Council Concerning Implementation of Transitional Rules for Enterprise Income Tax Incentives, or “Circular 39”. Based on Circular 39, enterprises that enjoyed a preferential tax rate of 15% in accordance with previous laws, regulations and relevant regulatory documents are eligible for a graduated rate increase to 25% over a five-year transition period beginning January 1, 2008. For those enterprises which currently enjoy tax holidays, such tax holidays will continue until their expiration in accordance with previous tax laws, regulations and relevant regulatory documents. While the new tax law equalizes the tax rates for foreign-invested enterprises and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to those classified as HNTE enjoying special support from the government. Additionally, a company which may be concurrently eligible for both preferential treatment to be granted during the transition period and the tax incentives as provided in EIT Law and its implementing rules shall elect the most preferential but only one tax treatment which shall not be changed since making the election. Following the effectiveness of the new tax law, the effective tax rate of Jiachenhong had increased but subject to the eligibility for preferential treatment. On August 31, 2007, the Ministry of Finance (the “MOF”) and the State Administration of Taxation (the “SAT”) promulgated the Notice Regarding the Issue on Application of Tax Laws by Enterprises, which was then abolished on February 21, 2011. In accordance with such notice, starting from January 1, 2008, enterprises established and registered during the period from March 17, 2007 to December 31, 2007 are required to pay enterprise income taxes at a rate of 25%. Since Nuoya was restructured as a foreign invested enterprise on August 17, 2007, a date that falls within the period from March 17, 2007 to December 31, 2007, Nuoya was deemed as established during that period and was required to pay enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% starting from January 1, 2008. Prior to January 1, 2008, Nuoya was subject to enterprise income tax at the standard rate of 33%. 27 Table of Contents On April 14, 2008, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the MOF and the SAT jointly promulgated the Administrative Measures for Determination of High-tech Enterprises, or the “Measures for Determination”, and the annex thereto (i.e. the High and New Technology Fields under the Key Support from the State). Under the Measures for Determination, the “high-tech enterprises” as mentioned in such Measures refer to the resident enterprises in sectors as listed in the High and New Technology Fields under the Key Support from the State, which have been registered for one year or longer within China (excluding Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan regions), have incessantly devoted to the research and development as well as transformation of technological achievements, have formed their own independent core intellectual property rights and are carrying out business activities on such basis. On July 8, 2008, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the MOF and the SAT further issued the Notice of Promulgation of the Guidelines for Determination and Administration of High-tech Enterprises (the “Guidelines”). Based on the Guidelines, the qualification for the enterprises which were registered both within and outside national high and new technology industries development zone (including Beijing new technology industries development experimental zone) and were classified as high-tech enterprises prior to the end of 2007 in accordance with previous laws shall remain valid if the validity period of their qualification has not expired, but such enterprises could not continue to enjoy the corresponding preferential tax treatment unless they could be redetermined as high-tech enterprises. Additionally, for high-tech enterprises which were granted tax exemption and reduction treatment for a certain period under previous laws and whose tax holiday has not expired, the abovementioned stipulations of Circular 39 shall continue to apply. Jiachenhong was granted the HNTE certificate on December 24, 2008 and such status was valid retroactively as of January 1, 2008 and expired on December 31, 2010. Jiachenhong’s renewed HNTE certificate was dated October 28, 2011, and was approved by the relevant PRC tax authority on February 15, 2012. Such status was valid retroactively as of January 1, 2011 and expired on December 31, 2013. As a result, Jiachenhong was subject to a reduced tax rate of 15% during such period. Jiachenhong’s HNTE status was subsequently redetermined by the relevant PRC tax authority in January 2015 and the renewed HNTE certificate was dated October 30, 2014 with a validity of 3 years. Such status is valid retroactively as of January 1, 2014 and will expire on December 31, 2016, and Jiachenhong is subject to a reduced tax rate of 15% during such period. Nuoya’s HNTE certificate was dated December 28, 2010 and was approved by the relevant PRC tax authority on June 2, 2011. Such status was valid retroactively as of January 1, 2010 and expired on December 31, 2012. Nuoya’s HNTE status was subsequently redetermined by the relevant PRC tax authority in April 2014 and the renewed HNTE certificate was dated October 16, 2013 with a validity of 3 years. Such status is valid retroactively as of January 1, 2013 and will expire on December 31, 2015, and Nuoya is subject to a reduced tax rate of 15% during such period. Lukou has not yet applied as an HNTE. We cannot assure you that Jiachenhong and Nuoya will be redetermined as an HNTE and thus continue to enjoy preferential tax treatment upon expiration, or if Lukou applies for an HNTE certificate that it will be granted. Furthermore, because the PRC government may adjust from time to time the encouraged sectors and the specific conditions for determination of high-tech enterprises in response to the development of national economics and technology, we cannot assure you that Jiachenhong and Nuoya will have their business operations continuously conform to the applicable conditions for determination of high-tech enterprises published by the government at any time. Once the business we are operating is considered by competent authorities to have substantive differences from the conditions for high-tech enterprise published by the government at that time, our certificates of high-tech enterprise may be revoked, and our position as a high-tech enterprise enjoying certain tax preferential treatment may be lost. Any further legislative changes to the tax regime could further increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to, or provide for other adverse tax treatments for, our principal subsidiaries in the PRC, the result of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that Jiachenhong and Nuoya will be able to continue to enjoy our current preferential tax treatments and we cannot assure you that Lukou will be granted with preferential tax treatment. Under the PRC EIT Law, we and/or our non-PRC subsidiaries may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in PRC tax consequences to us, our non-PRC resident enterprise investors and/or our non-PRC subsidiaries. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise”, meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a PRC enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as the managing bodies that in practice exercise “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise; however, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our managing body or the managing body of any of our non-PRC subsidiaries as being located within the PRC. Due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, the PRC tax authorities determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a non-PRC company on a case-by-case basis. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are, or any of our non-PRC subsidiaries is, a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we and/or such subsidiary may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our and/or such subsidiary’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if we and each of our non-PRC subsidiaries are treated as “qualified resident enterprises”, all dividends from our PRC subsidiaries to us (through our non-PRC subsidiaries) should be exempt from PRC tax. 28 Table of Contents If we or any of our non-PRC subsidiaries is determined to be a PRC “non-resident enterprise” and receives dividends from a subsidiary that is determined to be a PRC “resident enterprise” (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC), such dividends may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Any such tax on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we could pay to our investors. If we are determined to be a “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, this could result in a situation in which a 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our enterprise (but not individual) investors that are not tax residents of the PRC (“non-resident investors”) and gains derived by them from transferring our ordinary shares, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC tax authorities. In such event, we may be required to withhold a 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to our non-resident investors. Our non-resident investors also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances. We would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain under the PRC tax laws. Moreover, the SAT released Circular Guoshuihan No. 698 (“Circular 698”) on December 10, 2009 that reinforces the taxation of certain equity transfers by non-resident investors through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 addresses indirect equity transfers as well as other issues. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. According to Circular 698, where a non-resident investor that indirectly holds an equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise through a non-PRC offshore holding company indirectly transfers an equity interest in the PRC resident enterprise by selling an equity interest in the offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the actual tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable, the non-resident investor is required to provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise with certain relevant information within 30 days of the execution of the equity transfer agreement. The tax authorities in charge will evaluate the offshore transaction for tax purposes. In the event that the tax authorities determine that such transfer is abusing forms of business organization and a reasonable commercial purpose for the offshore holding company other than the avoidance of PRC income tax liability is lacking, the PRC tax authorities will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer under the doctrine of substance over form. If the SAT’s challenge of a transfer is successful, it may deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes and subject the non-resident investor to PRC tax on the capital gain from such transfer. Since Circular 698 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application. We (or a non-resident investor) may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we (or such non-resident investor) should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations (or such non-resident investor’s investment in us). If any PRC tax applies to a non-resident investor, the non-resident investor may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC tax under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a deduction for such PRC tax against such investor’s domestic taxable income or a foreign tax credit in respect of such PRC tax against such investor’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). Investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available deductions or foreign tax credits. Changes in PRC government policy on foreign investment in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our subsidiaries in Beijing and Guangdong are foreign investment enterprises. As we conduct a significant portion of our businesses through foreign investment enterprises in the PRC, we are subject to restrictions on foreign investment policies imposed by the PRC law from time to time. Generally, foreign invested enterprises enjoy more favorable tax treatment in the form of tax incentives and other preferential policies but are subject to more stringent restrictions in their business operations. If we cannot obtain approval from relevant approval authorities to engage in businesses that become restricted or prohibited for foreign investors, we may be forced to sell or restructure the businesses that have become restricted or prohibited for foreign investment. If we are forced to adjust our business portfolio as a result of changes in government policy on foreign investment, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially adversely affected. Our subsidiary, Lukou, of which 90% equity interest is held by our subsidiary, Jiachenhong, is not a foreign invested enterprise under PRC Law. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As we conduct a significant portion of our business through our subsidiaries in China, we are subject to PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented policies to strengthen the protection of employees and obligate employers to provide more benefits to their employees. In addition, an employment contract law came into effect in China on January 1, 2008. The PRC employment contract law and related legislations require more benefits to be provided to employees, such as an increase in pay or compensation for termination of employment contracts. As a result, we expect to incur higher labor costs, which would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our management capability is confronted with challenges due to requirements by PRC government in relation to protection of personal information. In February 2009, the Chinese National People’s Congress promulgated the Criminal Law Amendment (7), which, among other things, provides that any government, financial institutions, telecommunications organizations, or transportation, education, health care institutions or similar institutions or their employees who illegally sell or provide personal information which is obtained in the process of performing their duties would constitute a crime. In the ordinary operations of our company, we have the opportunity to contact, obtain or be exposed to personal information of our subscribers and their close relatives. If we or some of our employees are found to violate the criminal law by illegally providing or selling our subscribers’ private information, we will be confronted with lawsuit and our reputation will be ruined. Therefore, we may have to devote more costs and management efforts to reinforce our internal control system to ensure that our subscriber’s individual information will not be illegally disclosed. In spite of this, our subscribers’ information may also be unexpectedly disclosed, and in some cases, we may, based on due reasons and through lawful channels, provide our subscribers’ information to a third person. There is no assurance that such third person would not violate the Criminal Law Amendment (7) and use the information it receives from us in the agreed manners. The law does not provide clearly whether we will be prosecuted or will be required to bear other legal responsibilities in the event the person who receives personal information from us abuses such information. There is a possibility that we will be claimed by our subscribers for our failure in protecting their private information and such claim may be supported by the court. We may also be subject to investigation from criminal judiciary or even criminal penalties. Risks to our Shareholders There can be no assurance that any agreement will be executed with respect to the proposal made by Golden Meditech, or that this or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. The absence of a definitive offer to acquire our ordinary shares would likely have an effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. On April 27, 2015, our Board of Directors had received a non-binding proposal letter from Golden Meditech, pursuant to which Golden Meditech proposes to acquire all of the outstanding ordinary shares of the Company not already directly or indirectly owned by Golden Meditech for $6.40 per ordinary share in cash in a “going private” transaction (the “GM Proposal”). According to the proposal letter, the proposed transaction is intended to be financed with a combination of available cash resources of Golden Meditech and debt and equity capital. In connection with the proposed transaction, Golden Meditech has entered into agreements to acquire all of the 7% senior convertible notes of the Company, subject to certain conditions. On April 27, 2015, our Board of Directors had formed a special committee of independent directors to evaluate and consider the GM Proposal and certain other potential transactions involving the Company. Since being formed, the special committee has engaged legal and financial advisors. The special committee’s process is ongoing and the special committee intends to continue with its work, including evaluating the GM Proposal as well as other proposals which the Company may receive, for as long as the special committee, in consultation with its advisors, deems necessary. No decisions have been made by the special committee with respect to the Company’s response to the GM Proposal. There can be no assurance that any definitive offer will be made, that any agreement will be executed or that this or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. The public announcement of the GM Proposal affected the Company’s stock price. There can be no assurance that any definitive agreement will be executed with respect to the GM Proposal or that this or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. The absence of a definitive offer to acquire our ordinary shares, or changes in the proposal, as well as the commencement of the litigation regarding the GM Proposal as described in “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Legal Proceedings” herein, would likely have an effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · restatements conforming to the applicable accounting standards; · conditions in the markets for cord blood banking service; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies specializing in cord blood banking services; 30 Table of Contents · announcements by us and our affiliates or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of our shareholders, senior management and key research and development personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; · litigation related to our intellectual property; · changes in market or investors perception toward U.S. listed Chinese companies; · unfounded accusations by investors or non-investors about us or other U.S. listed Chinese companies; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and · sales or perceived potential sales of our ordinary shares or instruments convertible into ordinary shares. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Future conversions of our outstanding debts obligations would result in dilution to our public shareholders. On April 27, 2012, we issued $65 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible notes to KKRCHL with a conversion price of $2.838 per share. KKRCHL has the right to convert the convertible notes into our ordinary shares at any time within five years subsequent to the issuance date. In the event the holders of such convertible notes fully convert their notes into our ordinary shares, the shares thus converted would represent approximately 22.2% of our enlarged outstanding share capital, excluding shares owned by us. On October 3, 2012, we issued $50 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible notes to Golden Meditech with a conversion price of $2.838 per share. On November 10, 2014, Golden Meditech sold one half of such notes to Magnum Opus and one half to Cordlife Singapore for a total consideration of approximately $88.1 million. Each of Magnum Opus and Cordlife Singapore currently own $25 million in aggregate principal amount of such notes. Magnum Opus and Cordlife Singapore have the right to convert the convertible notes into our ordinary shares at any time within five years subsequent to the original issuance date. In the event the holders of such $25 million convertible notes fully convert their notes into our ordinary shares, the shares thus converted would represent approximately 9.9% of our enlarged outstanding share capital, excluding shares owned by us. In May 2015, we were informed that, in connection with its proposed go-private transaction, Golden Meditech had entered into agreements to purchase all outstanding convertible notes previously issued by the Company from the current holders thereof, subject to certain closing conditions. Cayman Islands law may be less protective of shareholder rights than the laws of the U.S. or other jurisdictions. We are registered by way of continuation under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2013 Revision, as amended and revised), of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors and us, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. Any shareholder of a company may petition the court which may make a winding up order if the court is of the opinion that it is just and equitable that the company should be wound up or, as an alternative to a winding up order, (a) an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future, (b) an order requiring the company to refrain from doing or continuing an act complained of by the shareholder petitioner or to do an act which the shareholder petitioner has complained it has omitted to do, (c) an order authorizing civil proceedings to be brought in the name and on behalf of the company by the shareholder petitioner on such terms as the court may direct, or (d) an order providing for the purchase of the shares of any shareholders of the company by other shareholders or by the company itself and, in the case of a purchase by the company itself, a reduction of the company’s capital accordingly. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. 31 Table of Contents As a result of all of the above, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, our directors or principal shareholders than they would as a shareholder of a U.S. company. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and executive officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited. We are not incorporated in the United States. We conduct our business outside the United States, and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Most of our directors and executive officers are non-U.S. citizens and reside, and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located, outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under U.S. securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands or the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and executive officers. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would (i) recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or (ii) entertain original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. We are a relatively young company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In this regard, we must maintain financial and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices that enable us to comply, on a standalone basis, with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules. Failure to maintain the necessary controls and procedures would make it difficult to comply with SEC rules and regulations with respect to internal control and financial reporting. We intend to continue to take further actions to continue to improve our internal controls. If we are unable to implement solutions to any weaknesses in our existing internal controls and procedures, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely impacted. We have instituted changes to our internal controls and management systems to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We had engaged external Sarbanes-Oxley consultants to advise us on Sarbanes-Oxley compliance issues and may do so again in the future. Section 404 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and file annual management assessments of their effectiveness with the SEC. The management assessment to be filed is required to include a certification of our internal controls by our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. In addition to satisfying requirements of Section 404, we may also make improvements to our management information system to computerize certain manual controls, establish a comprehensive procedures manual for U.S. GAAP financial reporting, strengthen our anti-corruption policy and increase the headcount in the accounting and internal audit functions with professional qualifications and experience in accounting, financial reporting and auditing under U.S. GAAP. Our auditors are required to attest to our evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting. Unless we maintain the adequacy of these controls as such standards are modified or amended from time to time, we may not be able to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result, our auditors may be unable to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and our ability to raise additional capital. We may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares. Under Cayman Islands law, we may only pay dividends out of our profits or our share premium account subject to our ability to service our debts as they become due in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to pay dividends will therefore depend on our ability to generate sufficient profits. We cannot give any assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all in the future. We have not paid any dividends to holders of our ordinary shares in the past. Future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to obtaining all relevant approvals, and will depend upon our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition, the payment of cash dividends from our subsidiaries to us, our capital needs, future prospects and other factors that our directors may deem appropriate. You should refer to “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation — Dividend Distributions” in this report for additional information regarding our current dividend policy for additional legal restrictions on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. 32 Table of Contents In addition, due to the failure of the Measures for Administration of Blood Stations to define or interpret the terms “non-profit”, “for-profit” or “for the purpose of making a profit” as they relate to our business, we cannot assure you that the PRC government authorities will not request our subsidiaries to use their after-tax profits for their own development and restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute their after-tax profits to us as dividends. We incurred additional costs as a result of being a public company in the United States, which affected our profits. We are subject to the reporting obligations of the SEC, which many consider to be more stringent, rigorous and expensive than operating a privately held company. In particular: · We incur costs in order to comply with U.S. corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or “FINRA”. · We incur costs in implementing and verifying internal control procedures as required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations thereunder. · We are required under U.S. rules and regulations to attract and retain additional independent directors to serve on our Board of Directors. We may encounter difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified independent directors to serve on our Board of Directors and our Audit Committee. If we fail to attract and retain independent directors, we may be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings and delisting by the exchange on which we are listed at the time. The costs incurred to comply with various listing requirements, including but not limited to, U.S. corporate governance compliance related expenses, internal control expense, and directors and officers insurance related expenses may continue to increase in the future, and, in turn, will increase our operating expenses and reduce our profit. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ordinary shares. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may result in shareholder litigation that could in turn result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The financial markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and market prices of healthcare companies have been and continue to be extremely volatile. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may be caused by factors outside our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If we become directly subject to the scrutiny involving U.S. listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and/or defend the matter, which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation. U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China have been the subject of intense scrutiny by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies. Much of the scrutiny has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial reporting and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed China-based companies that have been the subject of such scrutiny has sharply decreased in value. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and/or SEC enforcement actions that are conducting internal and/or external investigations into the allegations. If we become the subject of any such scrutiny, whether any allegations are true or not, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. Such investigations or allegations will be costly and time-consuming and distract our management from our business plan and could result in our reputation being harmed and our stock price could decline as a result of such allegations, regardless of the truthfulness of the allegations. 