ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. The global economic downturn in fiscal 2009 has reduced, and may further reduce, demand for our services and has also caused clients to request additional price concessions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If current global economic conditions continue or worsen, or if economic contraction continues in the industries or geographies where we operate, our business could be adversely affected by our clients’ financial condition and the levels of business activity in the industries we serve. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Negative or uncertain political climates in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for or respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. Our results of operations could be negatively affected if we cannot expand and develop our services and solutions in response to changes in technology and client demand. Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement consulting, systems integration and technology, and outsourcing services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry developments and client needs. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. Implementing new services or solutions for our clients may entail more risk than supplying existing offerings. Also, services, solutions and technologies offered by current or future competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain or successfully deliver client work. 18 Table of Contents The consulting, systems integration and technology, and outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively. The consulting, systems integration and technology, and outsourcing markets are highly competitive. We compete with a variety of companies, including: • Off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly Indian providers, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly competitive prices; • Large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers, that offer some or all of the services that we do; • Niche solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and • Accounting firms that are expanding or re-emphasizing their provision of consulting services. In addition, a client may choose to use its own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing or other resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete for new work and skilled professionals. Additionally, some of our competitors, particularly those located in regions with lower costs of doing business, may be able to provide services and solutions at lower cost or on terms more attractive to clients than we can, particularly in the outsourcing and systems integration markets. There is a risk that increased competition could put downward pressure on the prices we can charge for our services and on our operating margins. Similarly, if our competitors develop and implement methodologies that yield greater efficiency and productivity, they may be able to offer services similar to ours at lower prices without adversely affecting their profit margins. Even if we have potential offerings that address marketplace or client needs, our competitors may be more successful at selling similar services they offer, including to companies that are Accenture clients. If we are unable to provide our clients with superior services and solutions at competitive prices, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, we may face greater competition from companies that have increased in size or scope as the result of strategic mergers or acquisitions. These transactions may include consolidation activity among hardware manufacturers, software developers and vendors, and service providers. The result of this vertical integration may be greater convergence of products and services that were once offered separately by independent vendors. Our access to such products and services may be reduced as a result of this industry trend, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment. Our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities. Our government work carries various risks inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, the government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits or shortfalls, could result in our projects being reduced in scope or terminated altogether. • Government entities, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency in the United States, periodically audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct system 19 Table of Contents reviews, investigations and other inquires of our business practices with respect to our government contracts. If the government auditors find that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them, or the cost must be refunded to the client if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit also may result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for our work, may affect our future margins or may prevent us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government contracts for some period of time. • If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of their adequacy. An allegation of improper activity, even if not proven, could result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation and business. • U.S. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. Disclosure is required if certain company personnel have knowledge of “credible evidence” of a violation of federal criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil False Claims Act or receipt of a significant overpayment from the government. Failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension and/or debarment from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the U.S. federal level. Reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions. • Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than contracts with commercial clients. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. • Political and economic factors such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative decision makers, revisions to governmental tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed or the speed at which new contracts are signed. • Terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate than those for commercial contracts. The occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies. Additionally, because of their visibility and political nature, government projects may present a heightened risk to our reputation. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our services. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to attract additional work from our base of existing clients, including a significant amount procured on a sole-source basis. Our business model also depends on relationships our senior executives develop with our clients so that we can understand our clients’ needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to those needs. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us, a subcontractor or other third parties who provide services or products for a specific project, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. In 20 Table of Contents particular, clients that are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts prior to their scheduled expiration date and could direct future business to our competitors. In addition, negative publicity related to our client services or relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our clients terminate their contracts with us. Many of our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis. Although we do not centrally track the termination provisions of our consulting contracts, we estimate that the majority of our contracts can be terminated by our clients with short notice. Many of our consulting contracts are less than 12 months in duration, and these shorter-duration contracts typically permit a client to terminate the agreement with as little as 30 days notice and without significant cost. Longer-term, larger and more complex contracts, such as the majority of our outsourcing contracts, generally require a longer notice period for termination and often include an early termination charge to be paid to us, but this charge might not be sufficient to cover our costs or make up for anticipated profits lost upon termination of the contract. Additionally, large client projects often involve multiple contracts or stages, and a client could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. Terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors that are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, including the business or financial conditions of the client, changes in ownership or management at our clients, changes in client strategies or the economy or markets generally. When contracts are terminated, we lose the anticipated revenues and might not be able to replace the lost revenue with other work or eliminate associated costs in a timely manner. There is a risk we could experience a significant number of terminations. Consequently, our revenues and/or profit margins in subsequent periods could be lower than expected. Outsourcing services are a significant part of our business and subject us to operational and financial risk. We earned approximately 42% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009 from our outsourcing services. This portion of our business presents potential operational and financial risks that are different from those of our consulting and systems integration services. Our outsourcing services involve taking over the operation of certain portions of our clients’ businesses. In some cases, we may deliver those services using client personnel and third-party contracts that are transferred to us. Occasionally, however, we assume responsibility for delivering our services using client personnel or client subcontractors who are not transferred to us, and we therefore have less ability to fully control their work and efforts. In addition, we could incur liability for failure to comply with laws or regulations related to the portions of our clients’ businesses that are transferred to us. This type of work also presents financial risks to us. Outsourcing contracts typically have longer terms than consulting contracts and generally have lower gross margins than consulting contracts, particularly during the first year of the contract. This could exert downward pressure on our overall gross margins, particularly during the early stages of new outsourcing contracts, which might not be offset by improved performance on contracts in our portfolio that we have been operating for a longer time. Furthermore, we face considerable competition for outsourcing work and our clients are increasingly using intensive contracting processes and aggressive contracting techniques and terms, sometimes assisted by third-party advisors. 21 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be affected by the rate of growth in the use of technology in business and the type and level of technology spending by our clients. Our business depends in part upon continued growth in the use of technology in business by our clients and prospective clients and their customers and suppliers. In challenging economic environments, our clients may reduce or defer their spending on new technologies in order to focus on other priorities. At the same time, many companies have already invested substantial resources in their current means of conducting commerce and exchanging information, and they may be reluctant or slow to adopt new approaches that could disrupt existing personnel, processes and infrastructures. If the growth of use of technology in business or our clients’ spending on technology in business declines or if our clients or potential clients do not embrace new technology solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain favorable pricing rates. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is dependent on the rates we are able to charge for our services. If we are not able to maintain favorable pricing for our services, our profit margin and our profitability could suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: • our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; • competition; • our clients’ desire to reduce their costs; • introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; • our competitors’ pricing policies; • our ability to charge higher prices where market demand or the value of our services justifies it; • our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over long contract periods; • procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors; • aggressive use by our competitors of off-shore resources to provide lower-cost service delivery capabilities; and • general economic and political conditions. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain a favorable utilization rate. The cost of providing our services, including the utilization rate of our professionals, affects our profitability. Our utilization rate is affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain headcount in each of our geographies and workforces that is effectively aligned with demand; • our ability to manage attrition; and • our need to devote time and resources to training, business development and other non-chargeable activities. If our utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition. If our utilization rate is too low, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. 22 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively affected if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our solutions and services. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, fail to disclose our financial or other arrangements with our alliance partners or otherwise breach obligations to clients, or if our subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them, we could be subject to legal liability. We may enter into non-standard agreements because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately adhere to our guidelines. In addition, the contracting practices of our competitors may cause contract terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us to become new standards in the marketplace. We may find ourselves committed to providing services that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will cause us financial loss. If we cannot or do not perform our obligations, we could face legal liability and our contracts might not always protect us adequately through limitations on the scope of our potential liability. If we cannot or do not meet our contractual obligations to provide solutions and services, and if our exposure is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, we might face significant legal liability and our business could be adversely affected. If our pricing structures do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable. We negotiate pricing terms with our clients utilizing a range of pricing structures. Our pricing is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. This also applies to outsourcing contracts, as many of these projects entail the coordination of operations and workforces in multiple locations utilizing workforces with different skillsets. Furthermore, on outsourcing work we occasionally hire employees from our clients and assume responsibility for one or more of our clients’ business processes. Our pricing, cost and profit margin estimates on outsourcing work frequently include anticipated long-term cost savings from transformational and other initiatives that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the outsourcing contract. There is a risk that we will underprice our contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the work or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. This could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margin. Many of our contracts utilize performance pricing that links some of our fees to the attainment of various performance or business targets. This could increase the variability of our revenues and margins. Many of our contracts include performance clauses that require us to achieve agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could reduce our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. Additionally, we have a number of contracts, many of which are outsourcing contracts, in which a portion of our fees or incentives depends on factors such as cost-savings, revenue enhancement, benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. These goals can be complex and may depend in some measure on our clients’ actual levels of business activity. These provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts. Our alliance relationships may not be successful. We have alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own. See “Business—Alliances.” As most of our alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance partners are not 23 Table of Contents prohibited from forming closer or preferred arrangements with our competitors. Loss of or limitations on our relationships with them could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our global operations are subject to complex risks, some of which might be beyond our control. We have offices and operations in 52 countries around the world and provide services to clients in more than 120 countries. In fiscal 2009, approximately 44% of our net revenues were attributable to the Americas region, 46% were attributable to the Europe, Middle East and Africa region (“EMEA”), and 10% were attributable to the Asia Pacific region. In addition, our Global Delivery Network comprises local Accenture professionals working at client sites around the world as well as more than 50 delivery centers. If we are unable to manage the risks of our global operations, including fluctuations in foreign exchange and inflation rates, international hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, security breaches, failure to maintain compliance with our clients’ control requirements and multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, a majority of our net revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can have a number of adverse effects on us. • Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance-sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. Declines in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be lower than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. Conversely, increases in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. There is no guarantee that our financial results will not be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations. • In some countries we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which could limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. • As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency, and there can be no assurance that our contractual provisions or our currency hedging activities would offset this impact. This could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources. International hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our clients and thus adversely affect our operating results. Acts of terrorist violence, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. These events could adversely affect our clients’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and operations 24 Table of Contents around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our alliance partners or clients. By disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to our clients. Extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. While we plan and prepare to defend against each of these occurrences, we might be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. If these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our clients, our operating results could be adversely affected. We could incur liability or our reputation could be damaged if our provision of services and solutions to our clients contributes to our clients’ internal control deficiencies. Our clients may request that we provide an audit of control activities we perform for them when we host or process data belonging to them. Our ability to acquire new clients and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed if we receive a qualified opinion, or if we cannot obtain an unqualified opinion in a timely manner. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal controls failures or impair our client’s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and labor relations. Violations of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. Legislation related to certain non-U.S. corporations has been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States, none of which adversely affects Accenture. However, additional legislative proposals remain under consideration which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility to be awarded state or federal government contracts in the United States in the future. Changes in laws and regulations applicable to foreign corporations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions, such as preventing us from using off-shore resources to provide our services, or could impose additional taxes on the provision of our services and solutions. These changes could threaten our ability to continue to serve certain markets. In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these policies or procedures or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines and suspension or disqualification from U.S. federal contracting, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 Table of Contents We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we do not protect client data or information systems or if our information systems are breached. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data. As a result, we are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to control our costs. Our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency affects our profitability. In an environment of continuing pricing pressure, we may be forced to permanently adjust our pricing policies and delivery capabilities, and our profitability may be impaired if we cannot sustain or improve our cost management efforts. Our short-term cost reduction initiatives, which focus primarily on reducing variable costs, might not be sufficient to deal with all pressures on our pricing. Our long-term cost-reduction initiatives, which focus on global reductions in costs for service delivery and infrastructure, rely upon our successful introduction and coordination of multiple geographic and skill-based workforces and a growing number of geographically distributed delivery centers. If we are unable to control our costs or improve our efficiency, our profitability could be negatively affected. If we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand. We must hire, retain and motivate appropriate numbers of talented people with diverse skills in order to serve clients and grow our business. We are particularly dependent on retaining our senior executives and other experienced managers with the skill sets required by our business, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop new business and effectively lead our current projects could be jeopardized. Similarly, the profitability of our business model depends on our ability to effectively utilize personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to support our projects. The processes and costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining employees place significant demands on our resources. There is a risk that at certain points in time and in certain geographical regions, we will find it difficult to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds we require. In these cases, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain of our labor needs. Additionally, if demand were to escalate at a high rate, we may need to adjust our compensation practices, which could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our profit margins. At other times, however, we may have more personnel than we need in certain skill sets or geographies. In these situations, we must evaluate voluntary attrition and use increased involuntary terminations and reduced levels of new hiring as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in 26 Table of Contents balance with client demand. Our profits and ability to compete for and manage client engagements could be adversely affected if we cannot manage employee hiring, attrition and severance to achieve an efficient workforce structure. We could be subject to liabilities if our subcontractors or the third parties with whom we partner cannot deliver their project contributions on time or at all. Large and complex arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers. Our ability to serve our clients and deliver and implement our solutions in a timely manner depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to deliver their products and services in a timely manner and in accordance with project requirements, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. In addition, certain client work requires the use of unique and complex structures and alliances, some of which require us to assume responsibility for the performance of third parties whom we do not control. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to perform and subject us to additional liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profitability or cash flow. If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. In limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. We maintain allowances against receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Recovery of client financing and timely collection of client balances also depend on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. Our services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we might lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we could have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients. These claims could harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services or solutions. In a number of our contracts, we agree to indemnify our clients for expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. We might not be able to enter into these royalty or licensing arrangements on acceptable terms. If a claim of infringement were successful against us or our clients, an injunction might be ordered against our client or our own services or operations, causing further damages. 27 Table of Contents We could lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. Third-party suppliers of software, hardware or other intellectual assets could be acquired or sued, and this could disrupt use of their products or services by Accenture and our clients. If our ability to provide services and solutions to our clients is impaired, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or solutions might offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight. Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects. Legislative or regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable and could adversely affect our tax position. Although we expect to be able to rely on the tax treaty between the U.S. and Ireland, there are pending U.S. legislative proposals which could override such treaty, and which could subject us to increased taxation or significant additional expense. Similarly, Congressional proposals could change the circumstances under which we would be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could also subject us to increased taxation. In addition, we could be adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy in Ireland or other jurisdictions where we operate, including their treaties with the United States. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain U.S. companies that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the United States. While Accenture was not a U.S. company that reincorporated outside the United States, these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be enacted in a way to affect Accenture. We may be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland. There has been negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the United States but are domiciled in certain other countries. While we were never a U.S. company, some former U.S. companies that have undertaken expatriation transactions to offshore jurisdictions have been criticized as improperly avoiding U.S. taxes or creating an unfair competitive advantage over U.S. companies. We could be subject to similar criticism in connection with our incorporation in Ireland. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives. As of August 31, 2009, we had approximately 177,000 employees worldwide. Our size presents significant management and organizational challenges. It takes time for our newer employees to develop the knowledge, skills and experience that our business model requires. It is difficult to maintain common standards across a large enterprise and effectively institutionalize our know-how. In addition, it can be difficult to maintain our culture, effectively manage our personnel and operations and effectively communicate to our personnel worldwide our core values, strategies and goals. Finally, the size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that an employee will engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train our people and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired. We may not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating other businesses or technologies. We expect to continue our program of pursuing strategic acquisitions designed to enhance our capabilities. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired financial or operating results. Furthermore, we face numerous risks in integrating any businesses we might acquire. We might need to dedicate additional management and other resources to complete the transactions. Our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our ongoing operations and assimilate employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we undertake. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services. Consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. Companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. Our ability to attract and retain business may depend on our reputation in the marketplace. Our services are marketed to clients and prospective clients based on a number of factors. Since many of our specific client engagements involve unique services and solutions, our corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients’ evaluation of whether to engage our services. We believe the Accenture brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to damage by actions or statements made by current or former clients, competitors, vendors, adversaries in legal proceedings, 29 Table of Contents government regulators, as well as members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information about Accenture, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. In particular, damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Accenture brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, adversely affecting our share price. Our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate, including in response to variability in revenues, operating results and profitability, and as a result our share price could be difficult to predict. Our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors. These factors include: • announcements by us or our competitors about developments in our business or prospects; • projections or speculation about our business or that of our competitors by the media or investment analysts; • changes in macroeconomic or political factors unrelated to our business; • general or industry-specific market conditions or changes in financial markets; and • changes in our revenues, operating results and profitability. Our revenues, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, making them difficult to predict. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues, operating results and profitability to vary include: • the business decisions of our clients to curtail or reduce the use of our services, including in response to economic conditions; • seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations; • periodic differences between our clients’ estimated and actual levels of business activity associated with ongoing work; • the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination; • our ability to transition employees quickly from completed to new projects; • the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • our ability to manage costs, including those for personnel, travel, support services and severance; • our ability to maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our workforces; • acquisition and integration costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses; • changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, particularly those related to revenue recognition; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; and • global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism. 30 Table of Contents As a result of any of these factors, our share price could be difficult to predict and our share price in the past might not be a good indicator of the price of our shares in the future. In addition, if litigation is instituted against us following variability in our share price, we might need to devote substantial time and resources to responding to the litigation, and our share price could be adversely affected. Our share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, or be unable to properly report on our business and the results of our operations, and the market price of our securities could be materially adversely affected. We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We are organized under the laws of Ireland, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the United States judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it is based on public policy, was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice would not be enforced in Ireland. Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Acts 1963 to 2009 of Ireland (“the Companies Acts”). The Companies Acts differ in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders 31 Table of Contents under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of an Irish company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us. We might choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; • acquire other businesses or technologies; • repurchase shares from our shareholders; • develop new services and solutions; or • respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute shareholders’ ownership percentage in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we need might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 