ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) or stock price. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. 18 Table of Contents Our results of operations could be adversely affected by negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. Global economic conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve, and negative or uncertain economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. For example, the global economic downturn that began to affect our business in fiscal 2009 reduced demand for our services and caused clients to request additional price concessions. Changes in global economic conditions could cause our clients or potential clients to reduce or defer their spending on new technologies or initiatives in order to focus on other priorities, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Growth in the primary markets we serve could be at a slow rate, or could stagnate, for an extended period of time. Differing patterns of economic growth and contraction in the geographical regions in which we operate and the industries we serve may affect demand for our services. On-going economic uncertainties also affect our business in a number of other ways, making it more difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Specifically, if we are unable to forecast client demand for our services accurately, we might be unable to effectively plan for or respond to economic changes. This could result, for example, in not having the appropriate personnel where they are needed, and could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Any of these economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot adapt and expand our services and solutions in response to changes in technology and client demand. Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology and industry developments to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Our growth strategy focuses on driving innovation for our core business as well as through new business initiatives beyond the core business. If we are not able to successfully drive innovation in our services and solutions, our results of operations and ability to grow could be negatively affected. If, in response to client demand, we move work more quickly into our Global Delivery Network than planned, our revenues may be less than we anticipated. In addition, we operate in a quickly evolving environment. The services or technologies offered by current or future competitors may make our offerings less competitive or obsolete. Technological developments may arise that materially affect the commercial viability of our offerings. If we are unable to anticipate and respond effectively to these technological developments, our ability to obtain or successfully deliver client work may be negatively affected. The consulting and outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively. The markets in which we offer our services are highly competitive. We compete with a variety of companies, including: • Off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India or China, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly competitive prices and on more aggressive contractual terms; • Large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware and software), that offer some or all of the services that we do; 19 Table of Contents • Niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and • Accounting firms that are expanding or re-emphasizing their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions. In addition, a client may choose to use its own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide. Some of our competitors are companies that may have greater financial, marketing or other resources than we do and, therefore, may be better able to compete for new work and skilled professionals. The competitive environment in our industry affects our ability to obtain favorable pricing in a number of ways, all of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. The less we are able to differentiate our services and solutions, the more risk we have that they will be seen as commodities, with price being the driving factor in selecting a service provider. Increased competition from companies located in lower-cost locations has put downward pressure on the prices we can charge for our services, particularly in the outsourcing and systems integration markets, and is likely to continue to do so. Some of our competitors are willing, at times, to price contracts with low or negative margins in an effort to increase market share. Further, if our competitors develop and implement methodologies that yield greater efficiency and productivity, they may be able to offer services similar to ours at lower prices. Even if we have potential offerings that address marketplace or client needs, our competitors may be more successful at selling similar services they offer, including to companies that are Accenture clients. Some of our competitors are more established in emerging markets, and this may make our geographic expansion strategy in these markets more challenging. Additionally, our competitors may also offer more aggressive contractual terms, which may affect our ability to win work. In addition, we may face greater competition from companies that have increased in size or scope as a result of strategic mergers or acquisitions. These transactions may include consolidation activity among hardware manufacturers, software developers and vendors, and service providers. Within the last two years, we have seen significant consolidation that has resulted in the convergence of products and services that were once offered separately by independent vendors. Our access to such products and services may be reduced as a result of this consolidation. Additionally, vertically integrated companies are able to offer as a single provider more integrated services, software and hardware to clients than we can. If buyers of services favor using a single provider for an integrated technology stack, such buyers may direct more business to our competitors, and this could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations. Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment. Our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities. Our government work carries various risks inherent in the government contracting process. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, the government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits or shortfalls, could result in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Furthermore, if insufficient funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we may not be able to fully recover our investments. 20 Table of Contents • Government entities, particularly in the United States, often reserve the right to audit our contract costs and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. If these audits conclude that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them, or the cost must be refunded to the government if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit also could result in our being required to prospectively adjust previously agreed rates for our work, may affect our future profitability or may prevent us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government contracts for some period of time. In the U.S., pending final audit determinations the government may require us not to bill a percentage of our costs, as the U.S. government is currently doing with respect to certain of our contracts in an amount that is not material to our results of operations. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (the “DCAA”), routinely audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs and compliance with the Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”), and conduct system reviews, investigations and other inquiries of our performance and business practices with respect to our government contracts. Currently, we are being audited by DCAA in relation to our indirect cost submissions with respect to several fiscal years, as well as in relation to CAS and our business systems. If the government auditors find, and the Defense Contract Management Agency (which has administrative authority over our U.S. government contracts) concludes, that certain costs are not reimbursable, have not been properly determined or are based on outdated estimates of our work, then we will not be allowed to bill for such costs or may have to refund money that has already been paid to us. • If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties, including those under the civil U.S. False Claims Act, and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of their adequacy. An allegation of improper or illegal activity, even if not proven, could result in negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to win new contracts or receive contract renewals. • U.S. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. Disclosure is required if certain company personnel have knowledge of “credible evidence” of a violation of federal criminal laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil False Claims Act or receipt of a significant overpayment from the government. Failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension and/or debarment from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the U.S. federal level. Reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions. • Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than contracts with commercial clients. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. • Political and economic factors such as pending elections, the outcome of recent elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative decision makers, revisions to governmental tax or other policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed or the speed at which new contracts are signed, decrease future levels of spending and authorizations for programs that we bid, shift spending priorities to programs in areas for which we do not provide services and/or lead to changes in enforcement or how compliance with relevant rules or laws is assessed. 21 Table of Contents • Terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate than those for commercial contracts. The occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies or with certain commercial clients. Additionally, because of their visibility and political nature, government projects may present a heightened risk to our reputation. If any of the risks discussed above were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our services. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to attract additional work from our base of existing clients. Our business model also depends on relationships our senior executives develop with our clients so that we can understand our clients’ needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to those needs. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us, a subcontractor or other third parties who provide services or products for a specific project, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the client’s dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client. In particular, clients that are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts prior to their scheduled expiration date and could direct future business to our competitors. In addition, negative publicity related to our client services or relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts with current and prospective clients. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our clients terminate their contracts with us. Many of our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis. Although we do not centrally track the termination provisions of our consulting contracts, we estimate that the majority of our contracts can be terminated by our clients on short notice, and some without notice. Many of our consulting contracts are less than 12 months in duration, and these shorter-duration contracts typically permit a client to terminate the agreement with as little as 30 days notice and without significant cost to the client. Longer-term, larger and more complex contracts, such as the majority of our outsourcing contracts, generally require a longer notice period for termination and often include an early termination charge to be paid to us, but this charge might not be sufficient to cover our costs or make up for anticipated profits lost upon termination of the contract. Additionally, large client projects often involve multiple contracts or stages, and a client could choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, try to renegotiate the terms of its contract or cancel or delay additional planned work. Terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors that are beyond our control and unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, including the business or financial conditions of the client, changes in ownership or management at our clients, changes in client strategies or the economy or markets generally. For example in fiscal 2009, we experienced a higher volume of contract terminations and restructurings as a result of challenging economic conditions, which negatively affected our results of operations. When contracts are terminated, we lose the anticipated revenues and might not be able to replace the lost revenue, or it may take significant time to replace, with other work or eliminate associated costs in a timely manner. Consequently, our results of operations in subsequent periods could be materially lower than expected. 22 Table of Contents Outsourcing services are a significant part of our business and subject us to additional operational and financial risk. We earned approximately 43% of our net revenues in fiscal 2010 from our outsourcing services. This portion of our business presents potential operational and financial risks that are different from those of our consulting and systems integration services. Our outsourcing services involve taking over the operation of certain portions of our clients’ businesses. In some cases, we may deliver those services using client personnel and third-party contracts that are transferred to us. From time to time, however, we assume responsibility for delivering our services using client personnel or client subcontractors who are not transferred to us, and we therefore have less ability to fully control their work and efforts. In addition, we could incur liability for failure to comply with laws or regulations related to the portions of our clients’ businesses that are transferred to us. This type of work also presents financial risks to us. Outsourcing contracts typically have longer terms than consulting contracts and generally have lower gross margins than consulting contracts, particularly during the first year of the contract. This could exert downward pressure on our overall gross margins, particularly during the early stages of new outsourcing contracts, which might not be offset by improved performance on contracts in our portfolio that we have been operating for a longer time. Furthermore, we face considerable competition for outsourcing work and our clients are increasingly using intensive contracting processes and aggressive contracting techniques and terms, sometimes assisted by third-party advisors. In addition, we may face exposure in our outsourcing business if we contribute to internal controls issues of a client. If a process we manage for a client were to result in internal controls failures at the client or impair our client’s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements, there is a risk that we could face legal liability. Many of our clients request that we obtain an audit under Statement on Auditing Standards No. 70 of the control activities we perform for them when we host or process data belonging to them. We cannot guarantee that we will receive an unqualified opinion in any such audit, and our ability to acquire new clients and retain existing clients may be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed if we receive a qualified opinion, or if we cannot obtain an unqualified opinion in a timely manner. Our results of operations could materially suffer if we are not able to obtain favorable pricing. If we are not able to obtain favorable pricing for our services, our revenues and profitability could materially suffer. The rates we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: • general economic and political conditions; • our ability to differentiate, and/or clearly convey the value of, our services; • the pricing practices of our competitors, including the aggressive use by our competitors of off-shore resources to provide lower-cost service delivery capabilities, or the introduction of new services or products by our competitors; • our clients’ desire to reduce their costs; • our ability to charge higher prices where market demand or the value of our services justifies it; • our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain contract revenues, margins and cash flows over long contract periods; and • procurement practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world. Experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. We must hire, retain and motivate appropriate numbers of talented people with diverse skills in order to serve clients and grow and manage our business. We are particularly dependent on retaining our senior executives and other experienced managers with the skill sets required by our business, and if we are unable to do so, our ability to develop new business and effectively lead our current projects could be jeopardized. Similarly, our profitability depends on our ability to effectively utilize personnel with the right mix of skills and experience to support our projects, including our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments. If the utilization rate of our professionals is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition. If our utilization rate is too low, our profitability could suffer. The processes and costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining employees, and our need to devote time to business development and other non-chargeable activities, place significant demands on our resources. The mobility of our employees also contributes to the effective operation of our global business model, and increased regulation of immigration or work visas could make this more difficult. There is a risk that at certain points in time and in certain geographical regions, we will find it difficult to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current or future demand. In these cases, we might need to redeploy existing personnel or increase our reliance on subcontractors to fill certain of our labor needs. Our geographic expansion strategy in our strategic growth markets and other emerging markets depends in part on our ability to attract and retain both business leaders and people with the appropriate delivery skills. Additionally, if demand were to escalate at a high rate, we may need to adjust our compensation practices, which could put upward pressure on our costs and adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these increased costs. At certain times, however, we may also have more personnel than we need in certain skill sets or geographies. In these situations, we must evaluate voluntary attrition and use increased involuntary terminations and reduced levels of new hiring as means to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand in those geographies. Our ability to grow our revenues and increase profitability could be adversely affected if we cannot effectively manage employee hiring, assimilation and retention to meet client demand, maintain a favorable utilization rate and achieve an efficient workforce structure. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability in connection with providing our services and solutions. We could be subject to significant legal liability and litigation expense if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, fail to disclose our financial or other arrangements with our alliance partners, or otherwise breach obligations, to third parties, including clients, alliance partners, and other parties with whom we conduct business, or if our subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them and impede our ability to meet our obligations to our clients. We may enter into agreements with non-standard terms because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately follow our contracting guidelines. In addition, the contracting practices of our competitors, along with the demands of increasingly sophisticated clients, may cause contract terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us to become new standards in the marketplace. We may find ourselves committed to providing services or solutions that we are unable to deliver or whose delivery will reduce our profitability or cause us financial loss. If we cannot or do not perform our obligations, we could face significant legal liability, and our contracts might not always protect us adequately through limitations on 24 Table of Contents the scope of our potential liability, because a third party may allege fraud or other wrongdoing to prevent us from relying upon those contractual protections. A failure of a client’s system based on our services or solutions could subject us to a claim for significant damages that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If we cannot or do not meet our contractual obligations to provide such solutions and services, and if our exposure is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, or if liability limitations are not enforced, we might face significant legal liability and litigation expense and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition to expense, litigation can be lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and litigation results can be unpredictable. If our pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable. Our pricing for all of our services and solutions is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects to a client’s satisfaction, or we experience unanticipated delivery difficulties, our contracts could prove unprofitable or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. Our pricing, cost and profit margin estimates on outsourcing work, and sometimes other types of work, frequently include anticipated long-term cost savings for the client from transformational and other initiatives that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. There is a risk that we will underprice our contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the work or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. This risk could result in existing contracts and contracts entered into in the future being less profitable than expected or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Many of our contracts include performance payments that link some of our fees to the attainment of performance or business targets. This could increase the variability of our revenues and margins. Many of our contracts include performance clauses that require us to achieve agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. If we fail to satisfy these measures, it could reduce our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments or subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms. Additionally, we have a number of contracts in which a portion of our fees or incentives depends on performance measures such as cost-savings, revenue enhancement, benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. These goals can be complex and may depend on our clients’ actual levels of business activity. These provisions could increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts. Our ability to attract and retain business may depend on our reputation in the marketplace. Our services are marketed to clients and prospective clients based on a number of factors. Our corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients’ evaluation of whether to engage our services. We believe the Accenture brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, information technology security breaches or service outages or other delivery failures. Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, competitors, vendors, adversaries in legal proceedings, government regulators, as well as members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information about Accenture, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention 25 Table of Contents efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the Accenture brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price. Our alliance relationships may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own. Many of our services and solutions are based on technology or software provided by our alliance partners. See “Business—Alliances.” The priorities and objectives of our alliance partners may differ from ours. As most of our alliance relationships are non-exclusive, our alliance partners are not prohibited from competing with us or forming closer or preferred arrangements with our competitors. One or more of our key alliance partners may be acquired by a competitor. If our alliances are less successful, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer attractive solutions to our clients may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Global Delivery Network is increasingly concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose us to operational risks. Our business model is dependent on our Global Delivery Network, in which Accenture personnel are based at more than 50 delivery centers around the world. Under this strategy, we have continued to shift personnel and processes to locations where we can perform both outsourcing and consulting work at lower cost than in more highly-developed markets such as Western Europe or North America. While these delivery centers are located throughout the world, we have based large portions of our delivery network in India and the Philippines. Concentrating our Global Delivery Network in these locations presents a number of operational risks, many of which are beyond our control. India and the Philippines have experienced severe weather conditions, including cyclones, typhoons and other storms, which may occur again and could impair the ability of our people to safely travel to our facilities. Additionally, both countries have experienced political instability and worker strikes. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if catastrophic events occur. If any of these circumstances occurs, we have a greater risk that the interruptions in communications with our clients and other Accenture locations and personnel, and any down-time in important processes we operate for clients, could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation in the marketplace. As a result of our geographically diverse operations and our growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, we are more susceptible to certain risks. We have offices and operations in 53 countries around the world and provide services to clients in more than 120 countries. In fiscal 2010, approximately 44% of our net revenues were attributable to the Americas region, 44% were attributable to the Europe, Middle East and Africa region (“EMEA”), and 12% were attributable to the Asia Pacific region. In addition, our Global Delivery Network comprises local Accenture professionals working at client sites around the world as well as more than 50 delivery centers. One aspect of our growth strategy is to continue our geographic expansion in emerging markets, which generally involve greater financial and operational risks, such as those described below, than our more mature markets. If we are unable to manage the risks of our global operations and geographic expansion strategy, including fluctuations in foreign exchange and inflation rates, international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches, failure to maintain compliance with our clients’ control requirements and multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. Negative or uncertain political climates in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us. 26 Table of Contents Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Although we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, a majority of our net revenues is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. • Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, expenses and income, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance-sheet items originally denominated in other currencies. Declines in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be lower than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. Conversely, increases in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar could cause our growth in consolidated earnings stated in U.S. dollars to be higher than our growth in local currency when compared against other periods. • In some countries we could be subject to strict restrictions on the movement of cash and the exchange of foreign currencies, which could limit our ability to use this cash across our global operations. • As we continue to leverage our global delivery model, more of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which we bill for the related services. An increase in the value of certain currencies, such as the Indian rupee, against the U.S. dollar could increase costs for delivery of services at off-shore sites by increasing labor and other costs that are denominated in local currency, and there can be no assurance that our contractual provisions or our currency hedging activities would offset this impact. This could result in a decrease in the profitability of our contracts that are utilizing delivery center resources. In addition, our currency hedging activities are themselves subject to risk. These include risks related to counterparty performance under hedging contracts and risks related to currency fluctuations. We also face risks that extreme economic conditions, political instability, or hostilities or disasters of the type described in the paragraph below could impact our underlying exposures, perhaps eliminating them. Such an event could lead to losses being recognized on the currency hedges then in place, not offset by anticipated changes in the underlying hedge exposure. International hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics and infrastructure disruptions could prevent us from effectively serving our clients and thus adversely affect our results of operations. Acts of terrorist violence, armed regional and international hostilities and international responses to these hostilities, natural disasters, global health risks or pandemics or the threat of or perceived potential for these events could have a negative impact on us. These events could adversely affect our clients’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our alliance partners or clients. By disrupting communications and travel and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly skilled and qualified personnel, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to our clients. Extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. While we plan and prepare to defend against each of these occurrences, we might be unable to protect our people, facilities and systems against all such occurrences. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars. If these disruptions prevent us from effectively serving our clients, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes onerous or conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, antibribery, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and labor relations. This includes in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. Legislation related to certain non-U.S. corporations has been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States, none of which adversely affects Accenture. However, additional legislative proposals remain under consideration which, if enacted, could limit or even prohibit our eligibility to be awarded state or federal government contracts in the United States in the future. Changes in laws and regulations could also mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions or could impose additional taxes on our services and solutions. For example, because outsourcing and systems integration represent a significant portion of our business, changes in laws and regulations to limit using off-shore resources, which have been proposed from time to time in various jurisdictions, could adversely affect our results of operations if we are not able to transfer the affected work to other parts of our Global Delivery Network in a timely manner and without materially impacting our results of operations. In many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business community might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption laws or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate these policies or procedures or applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines and suspension or disqualification from U.S. federal contracting, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could have liability or our reputation could be damaged if we fail to protect client and Accenture data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if our information systems are breached. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners, and vendors. The breadth and complexity of this infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches. Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In providing services to clients, we often manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and 28 Table of Contents number, change frequently and sometimes conflict among the various countries in which we operate. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or Accenture data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. These monetary damages might not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages and could be significant. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or Accenture data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, including an attack by viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We could be subject to liabilities or damage our relationships with clients if our subcontractors or the third parties with whom we partner cannot meet their commitments on time or at all. Large and complex arrangements often require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions incorporate or coordinate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers, including companies with which we have alliances. Our ability to serve our clients and deliver and implement our solutions in a timely manner depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to deliver their products and services in a timely manner and in accordance with project requirements, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. Some of this work involves new technologies, which may not work as intended or may take more effort to implement than initially predicted. In some cases, these subcontractors are small firms, and they might not have the resources or experience to successfully integrate their services with large-scale projects or enterprises. In addition, certain client work requires the use of unique and complex structures and alliances, some of which require us to assume responsibility for the performance of third parties whom we do not control. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to perform and subject us to additional liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on relationships with our clients and on our results of operations. Our services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we might lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. We cannot be sure that our services and solutions, or the solutions of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and these third parties could claim that we or our clients are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. These claims could harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services or solutions. In a number of our contracts, we agree to indemnify our clients for expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities could be greater than the revenues we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming and costly, injure our reputation or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms, or we cannot substitute alternative technology from another source, our operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in recent years individuals and firms have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies. If a claim of infringement were successful against us or our clients, an injunction might be ordered against our client or our own services or operations, causing further damages. 29 Table of Contents We could lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others. Third-party suppliers of software, hardware or other intellectual assets could be acquired or sued, and this could disrupt use of their products or services by Accenture and our clients. If our ability to provide services and solutions to our clients is impaired, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or solutions might offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight. Depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. In certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop new or modified solutions for future projects. Changes in our level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. We calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. Tax accounting often involves complex matters and judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax liabilities. However, our judgments might not be sustained as a result of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid could be different from the amounts previously recorded. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. Furthermore, changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may be unpredictable and could materially adversely affect our tax position. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability could suffer if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful. Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on our being able to successfully manage our costs. Our cost management strategies include maintaining appropriate alignment between the demand for our services and our resource capacity, optimizing the costs of service delivery and maintaining or improving our sales and marketing and general and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues. This includes executing an increasing amount of our client delivery using geographically distributed workforces in lower-cost locations in our Global Delivery Network. We have also taken 30 Table of Contents actions to reduce certain costs, and these initiatives include, without limitation, ongoing global consolidation of our office space and re-alignment of portions of our non-client-facing workforce to lower-cost locations. There is no guarantee that these, or other, cost-management efforts will be successful, that our efficiency will be enhanced, or that we will achieve desired levels of profitability. If we are not effective in reducing our operating costs in the face of changes in demand or pricing, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. In limited circumstances, we also extend financing to our clients. We maintain allowances against receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Recovery of client financing and timely collection of client balances also depend on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. We may be subject to criticism, negative publicity and legislative or regulatory action related to our incorporation in Ireland. Some companies that conduct business in the United States but are domiciled in certain offshore jurisdictions have been criticized as improperly avoiding U.S. taxes or creating an unfair competitive advantage over U.S. companies. Accenture never conducted business under a U.S. parent company, and pays U.S. taxes on all of its U.S. operations. Nonetheless, we could be subject to similar criticism in connection with our incorporation in Bermuda for eight years and current incorporation in Ireland. Although we expect to be able to rely on the tax treaty between the U.S. and Ireland, there can be no assurance that legislative or diplomatic action will not be taken that would prevent us from being able to rely on such treaty. Our inability to rely on such treaty would subject us to increased taxation or significant additional expense. Congressional proposals could change the definition of a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could subject us to increased taxation. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected by future changes in tax law or policy in Ireland or other jurisdictions where we operate, including their treaties with the United States. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced and/or enacted in recent years that deny government contracts to certain U.S. companies that reincorporate or have reincorporated outside the United States. While Accenture was not a U.S. company that reincorporated outside the United States, these contract bans and other legislative proposals could be enacted in a way to negatively affect Accenture. If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives. As of August 31, 2010, we had approximately 204,000 employees worldwide. Our size presents significant management and organizational challenges. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain 31 Table of Contents effective standards across a large enterprise and effectively institutionalize our knowledge. It takes time for our newer employees to develop the knowledge, skills and experience that our business model requires. In addition, it may become more difficult to maintain our culture, effectively manage and monitor our personnel and operations and effectively communicate to our personnel worldwide our core values, strategies and goals, particularly given our world-wide operations. Finally, the size and scope of our operations increase the possibility that we will have employees who engage in unlawful or fraudulent activity, or otherwise expose us to unacceptable business risks, despite our efforts to train our people and maintain internal controls to prevent such instances. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our enterprise and instill our culture and core values into all our employees, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired. We may not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating other businesses. We expect to continue our program of pursuing tactical acquisitions designed to enhance our capabilities, expand in emerging markets and other countries or develop new services and solutions. We may not successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, succeed in completing targeted transactions or achieve desired results of operations. Furthermore, we face risks in successfully integrating any businesses we might acquire. We might need to dedicate additional management and other resources, and our organizational structure could make it difficult for us to efficiently integrate acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and assimilate employees of those businesses into our culture and operations. Accordingly, we might fail to realize the expected benefits or strategic objectives of any acquisition we undertake. We might not achieve our expected return on investment, or may lose money. If we are unable to complete the number and kind of acquisitions for which we plan, or if we are inefficient or unsuccessful at integrating any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our planned rates of growth or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position in specific markets or services. Consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business. Companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its consulting, systems integration and technology, or outsourcing services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. Our share price and results of operations could fluctuate and be difficult to predict. Our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors. These factors include: • changes in macroeconomic or political factors unrelated to our business; • general or industry-specific market conditions or changes in financial markets; • announcements by us or our competitors about developments in our business or prospects; • projections or speculation about our business or that of our competitors by the media or investment analysts; 32 Table of Contents • changes in our revenues, results of operations and profitability; • our ability to generate enough free cash flow to return cash to our shareholders at historical levels or levels expected by our shareholders; and • our failure to meet our growth and financial objectives, including with respect to revenue and earnings per share growth. Our results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, making them difficult to predict. Some of the factors that could cause our results of operations to vary include: • the business decisions of our clients to begin to curtail or reduce the use of our services, including in response to economic conditions; • contract delivery inefficiencies, such as those due to poor delivery or changes in forecasts; • seasonality, including number of workdays and holiday and summer vacations; • periodic differences between our clients’ estimated and actual levels of business activity associated with ongoing work; • the stage of completion of existing projects and/or their termination or restructuring; • our ability to transition employees quickly from completed to new projects; • the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • our ability to manage costs, including those for personnel, travel, support services and severance; • our ability to maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our workforces; • acquisition and integration costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses; • changes in, or the application of changes in, accounting principles or pronouncements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, particularly those related to revenue recognition; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • changes in estimates, accruals or payments of variable compensation to our employees; and • global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism. As a result of any of the above factors, or any of the other risks described in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” our share price could be difficult to predict and our share price in the past might not be a good indicator of the price of our shares in the future. In addition, if litigation is instituted against us following variability in our share price, we might need to devote substantial time and resources to responding to the litigation, and our share price could be materially adversely affected. Our share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent 33 Table of Contents limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements, and the market price of our securities could be materially adversely affected. We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We are organized under the laws of Ireland, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. A shareholder who obtains a court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws may be unable to enforce the judgment against us in Ireland or in countries other than the United States where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Ireland and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Ireland do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The laws of Ireland do however, as a general rule, provide that the judgments of the courts of the United States have the same validity in Ireland as if rendered by Irish Courts. Certain important requirements must be satisfied before the Irish Courts will recognize the United States judgment. The originating court must have been a court of competent jurisdiction and the judgment may not be recognized if it was obtained by fraud or its recognition would be contrary to Irish public policy. Any judgment obtained in contravention of the rules of natural justice or that is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment would not be enforced in Ireland. Similarly, judgments might not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Acts 1963 to 2009 of Ireland (“the Companies Acts”). The Companies Acts differ in some significant, and possibly material, respects from laws applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders under various state corporation laws, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company under Irish law, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests might conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of an Irish company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he could be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. 34 Table of Contents We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us. We might choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion; • acquire other businesses or assets; • repurchase shares from our shareholders; • develop new services and solutions; or • respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute shareholders’ ownership percentage in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we need might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 