Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Our business is highly dependent on sales volume. Global vehicle sales have declined significantly from their peak levels, and there is no assurance that the global automobile market will recover in the near future or that it will not suffer a significant further downturn. Our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales on our and Old GM’s business in the U.S. since 2007 and globally since 2008. Vehicle sales in the U.S. have fallen significantly on an annualized basis since their peak in 2007, and sales globally have shown steep declines on an annualized basis since their peak in January 2008. Many of the economic and market conditions that drove the drop in vehicle sales, including declines in real estate values, unemployment, tightened credit markets, depressed consumer confidence and weak housing markets, continue to affect sales. Recent concerns over levels of sovereign indebtedness have contributed to a renewed tightening of credit markets in some of the markets in which we do business. Although vehicle sales began to recover in certain of our markets in the three months ended December 31, 2009 and the recovery has continued through December 31, 2010, the recovery in vehicle sales in certain of our markets, including North America, has been proceeding slowly and there is no assurance that this recovery in vehicle sales will continue or spread across all our markets. Further, sales volumes may again decline severely or take longer to recover than we expect, and if they do, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Our ability to change public perception of our company and products is essential to our ability to attract a sufficient number of consumers to consider our vehicles, particularly our new products, which is critical to our ability to achieve long-term profitability. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. The automotive industry, particularly in the U.S., is very competitive, and our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead as is reflected by our loss of market share over the past three years. We believe that this is due, in part, to a negative public perception of our products in relation to those of some of our competitors. Changing this perception, including with respect to the fuel efficiency of our products, as well as the perception of our company in light of Old GM’s bankruptcy and our status as a recipient of aid under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), will be critical to our long-term profitability. If we are unable to change public perception of our company and products, especially our new products, including cars and crossovers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand. Volatile oil prices in 2008 and 2009 contributed to weaker demand for some of Old GM’s and our higher margin vehicles, especially our fullsize sport utility vehicles, as consumer demand shifted to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins and in recent years represented a smaller proportion of Old GM’s and our sales volume in North America. Fullsize pick-up trucks, which are generally less fuel efficient than smaller vehicles, represented a higher percentage of Old GM’s and our North American sales during 2008 and 2009 compared to the total industry average percentage of fullsize pick-up truck sales in those periods. Demand for traditional sport utility vehicles and vans also declined during the same periods. Any increases in the price of oil in the U.S. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as a result of political instability in the Middle East and African nations, could weaken the demand for such vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability, and have a material adverse effect on our business. The pace of introduction and market acceptance of new vehicles is important to our success, and the frequency of new vehicle introductions and vehicle improvements may be materially adversely affected by reductions in capital expenditures. Our competitors have introduced new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations and will continue to do so. Our profit margins, sales volumes, and market shares may decrease if we are unable to produce models that compare favorably 26 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES to these competing models. If we are unable to produce new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors, including models of smaller vehicles, demand for our vehicles may be materially adversely affected. Further, the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design, engineering, and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. Any capital expenditure cuts in these areas that were made in the past or that we may determine to implement in the future to reduce costs and conserve cash could reduce our ability to develop and implement improved technological innovations going forward, which may materially reduce demand for our vehicles. Our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations. We are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives for our European operations. Our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in North America and Europe. While some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our structural costs. Reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase. Failure of our suppliers, due to difficult economic conditions affecting our industry, to provide us with the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on many suppliers to provide us with the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business. In recent years a number of these suppliers have experienced severe financial difficulties and solvency problems, and some have sought relief under the Bankruptcy Code or similar reorganization laws. This trend intensified in 2009 due to the combination of general economic weakness, sharply declining vehicle sales, and tightened credit availability that has affected the automotive industry generally. Suppliers may encounter difficulties in obtaining credit or may receive an opinion from their independent public accountants regarding their financial statements that includes a statement expressing substantial doubt about their ability to continue as a going concern, which could trigger defaults under their financings or other agreements or impede their ability to raise new funds. When comparable situations have occurred in the past, suppliers have attempted to increase their prices, pass through increased costs, alter payment terms, or seek other relief. In instances where suppliers have not been able to generate sufficient additional revenues or obtain the additional financing they need to continue their operations, either through private sources or government funding, which may not be available, some have been forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations, or file for bankruptcy protection. Such actions would likely increase our costs, create challenges to meeting our quality objectives, and in some cases make it difficult for us to continue production of certain vehicles. To the extent we take steps in such cases to help key suppliers remain in business, our liquidity would be adversely affected. It may also be difficult to find a replacement for certain suppliers without significant delay. Increase in cost, disruption of supply, or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business. We use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. In recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased. Substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. Some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to 27 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent. We operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results. The global automotive industry is highly competitive, and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. Many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities and reduce fixed costs. Our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. Manufacturers in lower cost countries such as China and India have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. These actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results, and present a significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle. Our competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances. Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. Large OEMs are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. If our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take better advantage of these economies of scale. We believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect our competitiveness with respect to those competitors. Competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business. Our business plan and other obligations require substantial liquidity, and inadequate cash flow could materially adversely affect our financial condition and future business operations. We will require substantial liquidity to support our business plan and meet other funding requirements. We expect total engineering and capital spending of $15.0 billion in 2011 as we continue to refresh and broaden our product portfolio, increase our sales, and develop advanced technologies, with continued substantial expenditures on engineering and capital spending in subsequent years. At December 31, 2010 we have debt maturities and capital lease obligations of $9.9 billion through 2015, which include GM Financial. We also anticipate continued expenditures to implement long-term cost savings and restructuring plans, including our Opel/Vauxhall restructuring plan. In addition to the foregoing liquidity needs, we also have minimum liquidity covenants in our secured revolving credit facility, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated U.S. liquidity. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion of these liquidity requirements. If our liquidity levels approach the minimum liquidity levels necessary to support our normal business operations, we may be forced to raise additional capital on terms that may not be favorable, curtail engineering and capital spending, and reduce research and development and other programs that are important to the future success of our business. A reduction in engineering and capital and research and development spending would negatively affect our ability to meet planned product launches and to refresh our product line-up at the pace contemplated in our business plan. If this were to happen, our future revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. Although we believe we possess sufficient liquidity to operate our business, our ability to maintain adequate liquidity over the long-term will depend significantly on the volume, mix and quality of our vehicle sales and our ability to minimize operating expenses. Our liquidity needs are sensitive to changes in each of these and other factors. 28 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES As part of our business plan, we have reduced compensation for our most highly paid executives and have reduced the number of our management and non-management salaried employees, and these actions may materially adversely affect our ability to hire and retain salaried employees. As part of the cost reduction initiatives in our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation (the Special Master), the form and timing of the compensation for our most highly paid executives is not competitive with that offered by other major corporations. Furthermore, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the UST Credit Agreement, the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), including the Interim Final Rule implementing Section 111 (the Interim Final Rule), will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the EESA and the Interim Final Rule. Certain of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of Exceptional Financial Assistance, as determined pursuant to the Interim Final Rule or any successor or final rule, or (2) UST ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us. The effect of Section 111 of EESA, the Interim Final Rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. At the same time, we have substantially decreased the number of salaried employees so that the workload is shared among fewer employees and in general the demands on each salaried employee are increased. Companies in similar situations have experienced significant difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly in competitive specialties. Given our compensation structure and increasing job demands, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire and retain the employees whose expertise is required to execute our business plan while at the same time developing and producing vehicles that will stimulate demand for our products. Our plan to reduce the number of our retail channels and brands and to consolidate our dealer network may reduce our total sales volume and our market share and not result in the cost savings we anticipate. As part of our business plan we will focus our resources in the U.S. on four brands: Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC. We completed the sale of Saab in February 2010 and Saab GB in May 2010, and have completed the wind down of our Pontiac, Saturn and HUMMER brands. We have recently completed the federal arbitration process concerning dealer reinstatement and at December 31, 2010 we have reduced the total number of our U.S. dealerships to 4,500. We anticipate that this reduction in retail outlets, brands, and dealers will result in cost savings over time, but there is no assurance that we will realize all the savings expected. We also anticipate our sales volume and market share will increase over time, but it is also possible that our market share could decline in the short-term and beyond because of these reductions in brands and dealers which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European countries, and we are actively working to accomplish this. Restructurings, whether or not ultimately successful, can involve significant expense and disruption to the business as well as labor disruptions, which can adversely affect the business. The restructuring of our European operations will require us to invest additional funds and require significant management attention. In September 2010 we committed up to $4.2 billion through an intercompany facility and equity commitments to fund this restructuring and Opel/Vauxhall’s ongoing cash requirements. We cannot assure you that any of our contemplated restructurings will be completed or achieve the desired results, and if we cannot successfully complete such restructurings, we may choose to, or the directors of the relevant entity may be compelled to, or creditors may force us to, seek relief for our various European operations under applicable local bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, or similar laws, where we may lose control over the outcome of the restructuring process due to the appointment of a local receiver, trustee, or administrator (or similar official) or otherwise and which could result in a liquidation and us losing all or a substantial part of our interest in the business. 29 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded, and our pension funding obligations could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, investment decisions that do not achieve adequate returns, and investment risk inherent in our investment portfolio. Our future funding obligations for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. Our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. A detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is shown in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. Due to Old GM’s contributions to the plans and to the strong performance of these assets during prior periods, the U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans were consistently overfunded from 2005 through 2007, which allowed Old GM to maintain a surplus without making additional contributions to the plans. However, the funded status subsequently deteriorated due to a combination of factors. Adverse equity and credit markets reduced the market value of plan assets, while the present value of pension liabilities rose significantly in response to declines in the discount rate, the effect of separation programs and increases in the level of pension benefits and number of beneficiaries. This increase in beneficiaries was partially due to the inclusion of certain Delphi hourly employees. As a result of these adverse factors, our U.S. defined benefit pension plans were underfunded on a U.S. GAAP basis by $12.4 billion at December 31, 2010. The defined benefit pension plans are accounted for on an actuarial basis, which requires the selection of various assumptions, including an expected rate of return on plan assets and a discount rate. In the U.S., in the year ended December 31, 2010 interest rates on high quality corporate bonds decreased. The next pension funding valuation to be prepared based on the requirements of the PPA will be as of October 1, 2010. In December 2010 we made a $4.0 billion cash contribution to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans and in January 2011 we contributed 61 million shares of our common stock to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes. The contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain restrictions are removed, which is expected in 2011. A hypothetical funding valuation at December 31, 2010, using the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010 for the funding valuation of the plan year beginning October 1, 2010 and assuming the December 31, 2010 Full Yield Curve funding interest rate for all future funding valuations projects contributions of $2.3 billion and $1.2 billion in 2015 and 2016. Our potential funding requirements are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Other Long-Term Liabilities.” If the total values of the assets held by our pension plans decline and/or the returns on such assets underperform our return assumptions, our pension expenses would generally increase and could materially adversely affect our financial position. Changes in interest rates that are not offset by contributions, asset returns and/or hedging activities could also increase our obligations under such plans. If local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the U.S., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. At December 31, 2010 our non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were underfunded on a U.S. GAAP basis by $9.8 billion. Due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments, additional risks exist. Examples include significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to complete a particular investment strategy, and an inherent divergence in objectives between the ability to manage risk in the short term and inability to quickly rebalance illiquid and long-term investments. If we are unable to meet our required funding obligations for our U.S. pension plans under the terms imposed by regulators at a given point in time, we would need to request a funding waiver from the IRS. If the waiver were granted, we would have the opportunity to make up the missed funding, with interest to the plan. Additional periods of missed funding could further reduce the plans’ funded status, resulting in limitations on plan amendments and lump sum payouts from the plans. Continued deterioration in the plans’ funded status could result in benefit accrual elimination. These actions could materially adversely affect our relations with our employees and their labor unions. 30 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES If adequate financing on acceptable terms is not available through Ally Financial or other sources to our customers and dealers, distributors, and suppliers to enable them to continue their business relationships with us, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our customers and dealers require financing to purchase a significant percentage of our global vehicle sales. Historically, Ally Financial has provided most of the financing for our and Old GM’s dealers and a significant amount of financing for our and Old GM’s customers. Due to recent conditions in credit markets, particularly later in 2008, retail customers and dealers experienced severe difficulty in accessing the credit markets. As a result the number of vehicles sold or leased declined rapidly in the second half of 2008, with lease contract volume dropping significantly by the end of 2008. This had a significant adverse effect on Old GM vehicle sales overall because many of its competitors had captive financing subsidiaries that were better capitalized than Ally Financial during 2008 and 2009 and thus were able to offer consumers subsidized financing and leasing offers. Similarly, the reduced availability of Ally Financial wholesale dealer financing (in the second half of 2008 and 2009), the increased cost of such financing, and the limited availability of other sources of dealer financing due to the general weakness of the credit market has caused and may continue to cause dealers to modify their plans to purchase vehicles from us. Because of recent modifications to our commercial agreements with Ally Financial, Ally Financial no longer is subject to contractual wholesale funding commitments or retail underwriting targets. In addition, Ally Financial’s credit rating has declined in recent years. This may negatively affect its access to funding and therefore its ability to provide adequate financing at competitive rates to our customers and dealers. A number of other factors could negatively affect Ally Financial’s business and financial condition and therefore its ability to provide adequate financing at competitive rates. These factors include regulations to which Ally Financial is subject as a result of its bank holding company status, disruptions in Ally Financial’s funding sources and access to credit markets, Ally Financial’s significant indebtedness, adverse conditions in the residential mortgage market and housing markets that have adversely affected Ally Financial because of its mortgage business, increases or decreases in interest rates, changes in currency exchange rates and fluctuations in valuations of investment securities held by Ally Financial. Our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through GM Financial, could leave us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have their own captive financing subsidiaries and that therefore may be able to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain. Many of our competitors operate and control their own captive financing subsidiaries. If any of our competitors with captive financing subsidiaries are able to continue to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain, consumers may be more inclined to purchase our competitors’ vehicles and our competitors’ dealers may be better able to stock our competitors’ products. On October 1, 2010 we completed our acquisition of AmeriCredit, which we subsequently renamed General Motors Financial Company, Inc. through which we offer leasing and sub-prime financing for our customers. Our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through GM Financial, could result in our loss of customers to our competitors with their own captive financing subsidiaries and could adversely affect our dealers’ ability to stock our vehicles if they are not able to obtain necessary financing at competitive rates from other sources. We intend to rely on our new captive financing unit, GM Financial, to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime vehicle financing, and GM Financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. GM Financial is subject to various risks that could negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles. Because we intend to rely on GM Financial to serve as an additional source of leasing and sub-prime financing options for consumers, any impairment of GM Financial’s ability to provide such leasing or sub-prime financing would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration 31 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES among consumers who rely on leasing and sub-prime financing options to acquire new vehicles. The factors that could adversely affect GM Financial’s business and operations and impair its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing at competitive rates include: • The availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to finance its loan and lease origination activities pending securitization; • Its ability to transfer loan receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds to repay its credit facilities and purchase additional loan receivables; • The performance of loans in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments; • Its ability to implement its strategy with respect to desired loan origination volume and effective use of credit risk management techniques and servicing strategies; • Its ability to effectively manage risks relating to sub-prime automobile receivables; • Wholesale auction values of used vehicles; and • Fluctuations in interest rates. The above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect GM Financial’s business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles. The UST (or its designee) owns a substantial interest in us, and its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. The UST owns 32.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of February 15, 2011. As a result of this stock ownership interest, the UST has the ability to exert significant influence, through its power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters. To the extent the UST elects to exert such significant influence over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including: • The selection, tenure and compensation of our management; • Our business strategy and product offerings; • Our relationship with our employees, unions and other constituencies; and • Our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities. In particular, the UST may have a greater interest in promoting U.S. economic growth and jobs than other stockholders of the Company. For example, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the UST Credit Agreement, a covenant that continues to apply until the earlier of December 31, 2014 or the UST has been paid in full the total amount of all UST invested capital requires that we use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure, subject to exceptions, that our manufacturing volume in the United States is consistent with specified benchmarks. In the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as a result of participation in the TARP program and the U.S. government’s ownership in our business. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations. Our secured revolving credit facility as well as the UST Credit Agreement and the Canadian Loan Agreement contain significant covenants that may restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take actions management believes are important to our long-term strategy. Our secured revolving credit facility contains representations, warranties and covenants customary for facilities of its nature, including negative covenants restricting us from incurring liens, consummating mergers or sales of assets and incurring secured 32 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES indebtedness, and restricting us from making certain payments, in each case, subject to exceptions and limitations. Availability under the secured revolving credit facility is subject to borrowing base limitations. The secured revolving credit facility contains minimum liquidity covenants, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated U.S. liquidity. While we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the UST Credit Agreement, the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the EESA, including the Interim Final Rule, will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the EESA and the Interim Final Rule. Certain of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of Exceptional Financial Assistance, as determined pursuant to the Interim Final Rule or any successor or final rule, or (2) UST ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us. The effect of Section 111 of EESA, the Interim Final Rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. Similarly, covenants in our wholly-owned subsidiary GMCL’s Canadian Loan Agreement with the EDC limit compensation and benefits for Canadian employees. The UST Credit Agreement contains a covenant requiring us to use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that our manufacturing volume conducted in the United States is consistent with at least 90% of the projected manufacturing level (projected manufacturing level for this purpose being 1,934,000 units in 2011, 1,998,000 units in 2012, 2,156,000 units in 2013 and 2,260,000 units in 2014), absent a material adverse change in our business or operating environment which would make the commitment non-economic. In the event that such a material adverse change occurs, the UST Credit Agreement provides that we will use commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that the volume of United States manufacturing is the minimum variance from the projected manufacturing level that is consistent with good business judgment and the intent of the commitment. This covenant survives our repayment of the UST Loans and remains in effect through December 31, 2014 unless the UST receives total proceeds from debt repayments, dividends, interest, preferred stock redemptions and common stock sales equal to the total dollar amount of all UST invested capital. UST invested capital totaled $49.5 billion, representing the cumulative amount of cash received by Old GM from the UST under the UST Loan Agreement and the DIP Facility, excluding $361 million which the UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program and which was repaid on July 10, 2009. This balance also did not include amounts advanced under the UST Ally Financial Loan as the UST exercised its option to convert this loan into Ally Financial Preferred Membership Interests previously held by Old GM in May 2009. At December 31, 2010 the UST had received cumulative proceeds of $23.1 billion from debt repayments, interest payments, Series A Preferred Stock dividends, the Series A Preferred Stock redemption and proceeds from the sale of common stock. The UST’s invested capital less proceeds received totals $26.4 billion. To the extent we fail to comply with any of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement that continue to apply to us, the UST is entitled to seek specific performance and the appointment of a court-ordered monitor acceptable to the UST (at our sole expense) to ensure compliance with those covenants. Compliance with the manufacturing volume covenant could require us to increase production volumes in our U.S. plants, shift production from low-cost locations to the U.S. or refrain from shifting production from U.S. plants to low-cost locations. The Canadian Loan Agreement and related agreements include certain covenants requiring GMCL to meet certain annual Canadian production volumes expressed as ratios to total overall production volumes in the U.S. and Canada and to overall production volumes in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) region. The targets cover vehicles and specified engine and transmission production in Canada. These agreements also include covenants on annual GMCL capital expenditures and research and development expenses. In the event a material adverse change occurs that makes the fulfillment of these covenants non-economic (other than a material adverse change caused by the actions or inactions of GMCL), there is an undertaking that the lender will consider adjustments to mitigate the business effect of the material adverse change. These covenants survive GMCL’s repayment of the loans and certain of the covenants have effect through December 31, 2016. Compliance with the covenants contained in our secured revolving credit facility as well as the surviving provisions of the UST Credit Agreement and the Canadian Loan Agreement could restrict our ability to take actions that management believes are important to our 33 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES long-term strategy. If strategic transactions we wish to undertake are prohibited, our ability to execute our long-term strategy could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, monitoring and certifying our compliance with the surviving provisions of the UST Credit Agreement and the Canadian Loan Agreement requires a high level of expense and management attention on a continuing basis. Our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications. We intend to invest significant capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. In addition, we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2011 and 2012, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and electric vehicles, consistent with our announced objective of being recognized as the industry leader in fuel efficiency. Moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the liquidity we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay, or cancel our planned investments in new technology. In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. For example, in November 2010 we began producing the Chevrolet Volt, an electric car, which requires battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. There can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate, or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. However, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases with more money available, and there can be no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage. New laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant effect on how we do business. We are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. In the U.S. and Europe, for example, governmental regulation is primarily driven by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy, and energy security. These government regulatory requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. They may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue. CAFE provisions in the EISA mandate fuel economy standards beginning in the 2011 model year that would increase to at least 35 mpg by 2020 on a combined car and truck fleet basis, a 40% increase over current levels. California is implementing AB 1493 which will require increased fuel economy. This California program has standards currently established for the 2009 model year through the 2016 model year. Fourteen additional states and the Province of Quebec have also adopted the California greenhouse gas standards. In May 2009 President Obama announced his intention for the federal government to implement a harmonized federal program to regulate fuel economy and greenhouse gases. He directed the EPA and the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to work together to create standards through a joint rulemaking for control of emissions of greenhouse gases and for fuel economy. In the first phase, these standards would apply to passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles built in model years 2012 through 2016. CARB has agreed that compliance with EPA’s greenhouse gas standards will be deemed compliance with the California greenhouse gas standards for the 2012 through 2016 model years. The EPA and the NHTSA, on behalf of DOT, issued their final rule to implement this new federal program in April 2010. We have committed to work with EPA, the NHTSA, the states, and other stakeholders in support of a strong national program to reduce oil consumption and address global climate change. We are committed to meeting or exceeding these regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated federal program through the 2016 model year. We expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to 34 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES sell a significant volume of hybrid or electrically powered vehicles throughout the U.S., as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs. The EU passed legislation, effective in April 2009 to begin regulating vehicle CO2 emissions beginning in 2012. The legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. Additional measures have been proposed or adopted in Europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators, and others. At the national level, 17 EU Member States have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the EU emissions standards. Other governments around the world, such as Canada, South Korea, and China are also creating new policies to address these same issues. As in the U.S., these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. Due to these regulations, we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. The regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs, and loss of revenue. A significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. Many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as SGM. In joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of the Chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the Chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition, our business in China is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in China. If we are unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Restrictions in our labor agreements could limit our ability to pursue or achieve cost savings through restructuring initiatives, and labor strikes, work stoppages, or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations. Substantially all of the hourly employees in our U.S., Canadian, and European automotive operations are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements, which usually have a multi-year duration. Many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings from restructuring initiatives such as plant closings and reductions in workforce. Our current collective bargaining agreement with the UAW will expire in September 2011, and while the UAW has agreed to a commitment not to strike prior to 2015, any UAW strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in the future could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce costs and improve production 35 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES efficiencies in furtherance of our North American initiatives. A lengthy strike by the UAW that involves all or a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities in the United States would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition, particularly our liquidity. Despite the formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations. Our obligations together with our cash needs may require us to seek additional financing, minimize capital expenditures, or seek to refinance some or all of our debt. Despite the formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations, including significant liabilities to our underfunded defined benefit pension plans. Our current and future indebtedness and other obligations could have several important consequences. For example, they could: • Require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations than we currently do to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes such as product development; • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • Make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse developments in our business; • Limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; • Limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; and • Reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Future liquidity needs may require us to seek additional financing or minimize capital expenditures. There is no assurance that either of these alternatives would be available to us on satisfactory terms or on terms that would not require us to renegotiate the terms and conditions of our existing debt agreements. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing our present and future indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Several of the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our secured revolving credit facility and other loan facility agreements, contain covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. In the past, we have failed to meet certain of these covenants, including by failing to provide financial statements in a timely manner and failing certain financial tests. The Chapter 11 Proceedings and the change in control as a result of the 363 Sale triggered technical defaults in certain loans for which we had assumed the obligations. A breach of any of the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, if uncured, could lead to an event of default under any such agreements, which in some circumstances could give the lender the right to demand that we accelerate repayment of amounts due under the agreement. Therefore, in the event of any such breach, we may need to seek covenant waivers or amendments from the lenders or to seek alternative or additional sources of financing, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments or alternative or additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on technical defaults and covenant violations. Any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. The ability of our new executive management team to quickly learn the automotive industry and lead our company will be critical to our ability to succeed, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if they are unsuccessful. We have substantially changed our executive management team in the recent past. We have a new Chief Executive Officer who started on September 1, 2010 and a new Chief Financial Officer who started on January 1, 2010, both of whom have no prior outside 36 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES automotive industry experience. We have also promoted from within GM many new senior officers. It is important to our success that the new members of the executive management team quickly understand the automotive industry and that our senior officers quickly adapt and excel in their new senior management roles. If they are unable to do so, and as a result are unable to provide effective guidance and leadership, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates. Given the nature and global spread of our business, we have significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. For example, at times certain of our competitors have derived competitive advantage from relative weakness of the Japanese Yen through pricing advantages for vehicles and parts imported from Japan to markets with more robust currencies like the U.S. and Western Europe. Similarly, a significant strengthening of the Korean Won relative to the U.S. dollar or the Euro would affect the competitiveness of our Korean operations as well as that of certain Korean competitors. As yet another example, a relative weakness of the British Pound compared to the Euro has an adverse effect on our results of operations in Europe. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we translate our revenues and expenses outside the U.S. into U.S. Dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our businesses outside the U.S. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business. The majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the U.S. We are pursuing growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the U.S. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic, and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to change, including: • Economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as China; • Economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the repatriation of dividends, especially between the United States and China; • Foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries; • Differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions, and safety; • Differing labor regulations and union relationships; • Consequences from changes in tax laws; • Difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and • Political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism. The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. New laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a significant negative effect on how we do business. Our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. Meeting or exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. While we are managing our product development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing, and manufacturing. Governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product. 37 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES The costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. From time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance, or safety-related issues. The costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. In addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. Any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. Conversely, not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause our common stock price to decline or impair our ability to raise capital. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, or the conversion of shares of our Series B Preferred Stock or the perception that conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity and equity-related securities. At February 15, 2011 there are 1,560,743,059 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At February 15, 2011 MLC holds a warrant to acquire 136,363,636 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.00 per share, MLC holds another warrant to acquire 136,363,636 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $18.33 per share, and the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust (New VEBA) holds a warrant to acquire 45,454,545 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $42.31 per share. Up to 151,520,000 shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding at February 15, 2011. Of the 1,560,743,059 outstanding shares of common stock at February 15, 2011, the 549,700,000 shares of common stock sold in the November and December 2010 public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), unless those shares are held by any of our “affiliates,” as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Following the expiration of the applicable lock-up periods on May 13, 2011, the 950,300,000 outstanding shares of common stock held by the UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA and MLC at February 15, 2011 may be eligible for resale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act subject to applicable restrictions under Rule 144. In addition, pursuant to the October 15, 2009 Equity Registration Rights Agreement we entered into with the UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA, MLC, and our previous legal entity prior to our October 2009 holding company reorganization (which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) (Equity Registration Rights Agreement), we have granted each of the UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA and MLC the right to require us in certain circumstances to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering additional resales of our common stock and other equity securities (including the warrants) held by them and the right to participate in other registered offerings in certain circumstances. As restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their registration rights or otherwise sell their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline. In particular, the UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA and MLC might sell a large number of the shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire our common stock that they hold, or, in the case of the New VEBA and MLC, exercise their warrants and then sell the underlying shares of our common stock. Further, MLC might distribute shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire our common stock that it holds to its numerous creditors and other stakeholders pursuant to a plan of reorganization confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 Proceedings, and those creditors and other stakeholders might resell those shares and warrants. Such sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or warrants could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, on January 13, 2011 we contributed 60,606,061 shares of our common stock to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans. The contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain restrictions are removed, which is expected in 2011. In connection with such contribution, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement dated January 13, 2011 with sub-trusts established under the U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans (Pension Plan Registration Rights Agreement), whereby we granted the pension plans the right to require us in certain circumstances 38 Table of Contents CONFIDENTIAL GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering additional resales of those shares of our common stock held by them and the right to participate in other registered offerings in certain circumstances. If the pension plans exercise their registration rights or otherwise sell their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited. We have no current plans to commence payment of a dividend on our common stock. Our payment of dividends on our common stock in the future will be determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings and liquidity, and other factors. So long as any share of our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. In addition, our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, subject to exceptions such as dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock. Any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. In the event that any of our indentures or other financing agreements in the future restricts our ability to pay dividends in cash on our common stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on our common stock unless we can refinance the amounts outstanding under those agreements. In addition, under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may declare dividends on our capital stock only to the extent of our statutory “surplus” (which is defined as the amount equal to total assets minus total liabilities, in each case at fair market value, minus statutory capital), or if there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Further, even if we are permitted under our contractual obligations and Delaware law to pay cash dividends on our common stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends in cash on our common stock. * * * * * * * Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None * * * * * * * 