ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Management and Our Relationship with Our Manager We are dependent on our Manager, Colony Capital and their key personnel for our success. We may not find a suitable replacement for our Manager and Colony Capital if the management agreement or the investment advisory agreement is terminated, or for these key personnel if they leave our Manager or Colony Capital or otherwise become unavailable to us, which would materially and adversely affect us. We are externally advised by our Manager, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Colony Capital, and all of our officers are employees of our Manager or its affiliates, including Colony Capital. Pursuant to our management agreement, our Manager is obligated to supply us with substantially all of our senior management team, and our chief financial officer is seconded exclusively to us pursuant to a secondment agreement with Colony Capital. Subject to investment, leverage and other guidelines or policies adopted by our board of directors, our Manager has significant discretion regarding the implementation of our investment and operating policies and strategies. Accordingly, we believe that our success depends significantly upon the experience, skill, resources, relationships and contacts of the executive officers and key personnel of our Manager and its affiliates. Executive officers and key personnel of our Manager and Colony Capital evaluate, negotiate, close and monitor our investments; therefore, our success depends on their continued service. The departure of any member of our management from Colony Capital, particularly Thomas J. Barrack, Jr., our Executive Chairman, and Richard B. Saltzman, our Chief Executive Officer and President, or such officers or personnel otherwise becoming unavailable to manage our business could have a material adverse effect on our performance. Neither our Manager nor Colony Capital is obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us (other than our chief financial officer), nor are they or their personnel (other than our chief financial officer) obligated to dedicate any specific portion of their time to the management of our business. As a result, we cannot provide any assurances regarding the amount of time our Manager or Colony Capital will dedicate to the management of our business. Moreover, each of our officers and non-independent directors is also an employee of our Manager or one of its affiliates, and, other than our chief financial officer (who is seconded exclusively to us), has significant responsibilities for other investment vehicles currently managed by Colony Capital and its affiliates, and may not always be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business. Consequently, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we otherwise might receive if we were internally managed. In addition, we offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our manager or that we will continue to have access to our Manager’s principals and professionals. The initial term of our management agreement with our Manager, and the investment advisory agreement between our Manager and Colony Capital only extends until September 29, 2012, with automatic one-year renewals thereafter, and may be terminated earlier under certain circumstances. If the management agreement or the investment advisory agreement is terminated or not renewed and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 15 Table of Contents There are various conflicts of interest in our relationship with Colony Capital and its affiliates, including our Manager, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with Colony Capital and its affiliates, including our Manager. Each of our officers and non-independent directors are employees of Colony Capital and certain of its affiliates, and, other than our chief financial officer (who is seconded exclusively to us), may have conflicts between their duties to us and their duties to, and interests in, Colony Capital and its other investment funds, including investments in certain of our assets. The activities of other investment funds managed by Colony Capital or its affiliates could restrict our ability to pursue certain asset acquisitions or take other actions related to our business. Further, at times when there are turbulent conditions in the mortgage markets or distress in the credit markets or other times when we will need focused support and assistance from our Manager and its key personnel, Colony Capital’s other clients may likewise require greater focus and attention, placing Colony Capital’s resources in high demand. In such situations, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we may receive if we were internally managed or if our Manager’s key personnel did not have investment management responsibilities for other entities. In particular, Colony Capital or its affiliates currently manage funds that may compete with us with respect to our target assets. As a result, there may be certain situations where our officers allocate assets that may be suitable for us to such other funds. There is no assurance that the investment allocation agreement that addresses some of the conflicts relating to our assets will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise. Our Manager receives substantial base management fees regardless of the performance of our portfolio and, as a result, our Manager might not have an adequate incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio. Consequently, we may be required to pay our Manager significant base management fees in a particular quarter despite experiencing a net loss or a decline in the value of our portfolio during that quarter. In addition, our Manager has the ability to earn incentive fees each quarter based on our Core Earnings, which may create an incentive for our Manager to invest in assets with higher yield potential, which are generally riskier or more speculative, or sell an asset prematurely for a gain, in an effort to increase our short-term net income and thereby increase the incentive fees to which it is entitled. If our interests and those of our Manager are not aligned, the execution of our business plan and our results of operations could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. Certain current or future private investment funds managed by Colony Capital or its affiliates may have the right to co-invest with us in certain of our target assets, which could adversely affect our ability to invest timely in our target assets, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Certain current or future Co-Investment Funds managed by Colony Capital or its affiliates may have the right to co-invest with us in our target assets, subject to us and each Co-Investment Fund having capital available for investment and the determination by our Manager and the general partner of each Co-Investment Fund (which is or will be an affiliate of Colony Capital) that the proposed investment is suitable for us and such Co-Investment Fund, respectively. Currently, the Co-Investment Funds have the right to co-invest with us under certain circumstances. Depending on the circumstances, we may co-invest in a particular asset with one or any combination of the Co-Investment Funds. To the extent that a Co-Investment Fund has significant available capital, the likelihood that we may co-invest in a particular asset with such fund could increase significantly. We also expect that, in the future, Colony Capital will sponsor other Co-Investment Funds that primarily will invest in our target assets. To the extent that we acquire assets with Co-Investment Funds, our ability to invest our then available capital in revenue-generating assets in the near term may be hindered, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Most of our investment activities have been structured as co-investments with one or more of the Co-Investment Funds. Accordingly, because affiliates of Colony Capital also manage the Co-Investment Funds and also may participate indirectly in the investments made by such Co-Investment Funds, and because fees 16 Table of Contents payable to such affiliates by the Co-Investment Funds may be more advantageous than fees payable to our Manager, our interests in such investments may conflict with the interests of the Co-Investment Funds, and our Manager or its affiliates may take actions that may not be most favorable to us, including in the event of a default or restructuring of the assets subject to co-investment rights. In addition, because the Co-Investment Funds are, and in the future likely will be, closed-end funds or other investment vehicles with finite lives, such Co-Investment Funds are expected to dispose of substantially all of the assets in their respective portfolios prior to termination. As a result, prior to such terminations, we may need to sell our interests in certain current or future co-investment assets before we otherwise would in order to avoid a potential conflict. Our decision to sell such interests will depend, among other things, on our ability to sell the interests at favorable prices or at all. It is also possible that our Manager or its affiliates who also manage such Co-Investment Funds may sell such co-investment assets at times or prices that are not in the best interests of us or our stockholders. In addition, to the extent that such Co-Investment Funds dispose of co-investment assets that are qualifying assets, we may be required to purchase additional qualifying assets (subject to the availability of capital at favorable prices or at all) or sell non-qualifying assets at inopportune times or prices in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT and our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. Even if our interests are not in conflict with those of Co-Investment Funds, we may not realize the full economic benefits of the investment. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our Manager’s ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our business strategy could be hindered materially, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Colony Capital and/or our Manager are also subject to certain allocation policies, subject to change in their discretion, in allocating investments among us and other current and future investment funds and vehicles managed by Colony Capital or its affiliates. See “Business—Co-Investment Funds.” The management agreement with our Manager was not negotiated on an arm’s length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Our executive officers and two of our five directors are executives of Colony Capital. Our management agreement was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable to our Manager, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with Colony Capital and its affiliates. Termination of our management agreement could be costly and may cause us to be unable to execute our business plan. Termination of the management agreement with our Manager without cause may be difficult and costly. Our independent directors review our Manager’s performance and the fees that may be payable to our Manager annually and, following the initial three-year term, the management agreement may be terminated annually upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors based upon: (1) our Manager’s unsatisfactory performance that is materially detrimental to us; or (2) a determination that the management fees payable to our Manager are not fair, subject to our Manager’s right to prevent termination based on unfair fees by accepting a reduction of management fees agreed to by at least two-thirds of our independent directors. Our Manager will be provided 180 days prior written notice of any such a termination. Additionally, upon such a termination without cause, the management agreement provides that we will pay our Manager a termination fee equal to three times the sum of (a) the average annual base management fee and (b) the average annual incentive fee earned by the Manager, in each case during the prior 24-month period immediately preceding such termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter before the date of termination. Our Manager is only contractually committed to manage our business until September 29, 2012. Thereafter, the management agreement is renewable annually for one-year terms; provided, however, that our Manager may terminate 17 Table of Contents the management agreement upon 180 days prior written notice. If the management agreement is terminated and we are unable to identify a suitable replacement to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our Manager manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines, and our board of directors does not approve each investment and financing decision made by our Manager unless required by our investment guidelines. Our Manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines established by our board of directors. Our board of directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines and our portfolio of assets but does not, and is not be required to, review all of our proposed investments, except in limited circumstances as set forth in our investment guidelines. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our Manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our Manager may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of directors. Our Manager has great latitude within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types and amounts of assets in which to invest on our behalf, including making investments that may result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses, which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, or may otherwise not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our Manager’s liability is limited under the management agreement and we have agreed to indemnify the Manager against certain liabilities. Pursuant to the management agreement, our Manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Our Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the management agreement, our Manager, its officers, members, personnel, any person controlling or controlled by our Manager and any person providing sub-advisory services to our Manager will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of our Manager’s duties under the management agreement. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our Manager and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the management agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person’s duties under the management agreement. We do not own the Colony name, but have entered into a license agreement with an affiliate of Colony Capital granting us the right to use the Colony name. Use of the name by other parties or the termination of our license agreement may harm our business. Concurrently with the closing of our IPO, we entered into a license agreement pursuant to which we have a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the name “Colony.” Under this agreement, we have a right to use the “Colony” name as long as Colony Financial Manager, LLC remains our Manager pursuant to the management agreement. Colony Capital retains the right to continue using the “Colony” name. We also are unable to preclude Colony Capital from licensing or transferring the ownership of the “Colony” name to third parties, some of whom may compete against us. Consequently, we will be unable to prevent any damage to goodwill that may occur as a result of the activities of Colony Capital or others. Furthermore, in the event the license agreement is terminated, we will be required to change our name and cease using the “Colony” name. Any of these events could disrupt our recognition in the market place, damage any goodwill we may have generated and otherwise harm our business. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may change our business, investment, leverage and financing strategies without stockholder consent. As the market evolves, we may change our business, investment and financing strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders, which could result in our making investments and engaging in business activities that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments and businesses described in this Annual Report. In particular, a change in our investment strategy, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations. In addition, we may in the future use leverage at times and in amounts deemed prudent by our Manager in its discretion, and such decision would not be subject to stockholder approval. Furthermore, as the market evolves, our board of directors may determine that the commercial real estate market does not offer the potential for attractive risk-adjusted returns for an investment strategy that is consistent with our intention to elect and qualify to be taxed as a REIT and to operate in a manner to maintain our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. For example, if our board of directors believes it would be advisable for us to be a more active seller of loans and securities, our board of directors may determine that we should conduct such business through a TRS, or that we should cease to maintain our REIT qualification. Changes to our strategies with regards to the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Maintenance of our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act imposes significant limits on our operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. We have conducted, and intend to continue to conduct, our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Because we are a holding company that conducts its businesses primarily through wholly owned or majority-owned subsidiaries, the securities issued by such subsidiaries that are relying on the exception from the definition of “investment company” contained in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries rely upon the exemption from registration as an investment company under the 1940 Act pursuant to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, which is available for entities “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” This exemption generally requires that at least 55% of each such subsidiary’s assets must be comprised of qualifying assets and at least 80% of each of their portfolios must be comprised of qualifying assets and real estate-related assets under the 1940 Act. Each of our subsidiaries relying on Section 3(c)(5)(C) relies on guidance published by the SEC staff or on our analyses of guidance published with respect to other types of assets to determine which assets are qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. The SEC staff has not, however, published guidance with respect to the treatment of some of these assets under Section 3(c)(5)(C). To the extent that the SEC staff publishes new or different guidance with respect to these matters, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. In addition, we may be limited in our ability to make certain investments and these limitations could result in the subsidiary holding assets we might wish to sell or selling assets we might wish to hold. We also hold a minority equity interest in First Republic Bank, a publicly traded bank, the value of which may fluctuate significantly based upon the public trading price of the bank’s common stock. Because our interest in First Republic Bank could be considered investment securities under the 1940 Act, if this investment appreciates materially, in order to remain exempt from regulation under the 1940 Act, we may seek to sell all or a portion of our interest in First Republic Bank and/or other investments when we may otherwise wish to hold such investment(s), although we can provide no assurances that we would be able to sell any such investment(s) in sufficient amounts or within the time required to avoid becoming subject to regulation under the 1940 Act. Certain of our subsidiaries may rely on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(6) to the extent that they hold mortgage assets through majority-owned subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C). The SEC staff has issued little interpretive guidance with respect to Section 3(c)(6) and any guidance published by the staff could require us to adjust our strategy accordingly. 19 Table of Contents The determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of our company is made by us. The 1940 Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of which are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The 1940 Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies in which we own at least 50% of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. We have not requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our strategy and our assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in our strategy could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 Act status of our company, including the Division of Investment Management of the SEC providing more specific or different guidance regarding these exemptions, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. Our Manager and its affiliates have limited experience managing a portfolio of assets in the manner necessary to maintain our exemption under the 1940 Act. If we or our subsidiaries fail to maintain our exemption, we could, among other things, be required either to (a) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or (c) register as an investment company, any of which could negatively affect the value of our common stock, the sustainability of our business model, and our ability to make distributions which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price for our shares of common stock. In addition, if we were required to register as an investment company, but failed to do so, we could be subject to criminal and civil actions. In addition, failure to maintain our 1940 Act exemption would permit our Manager to terminate the management agreement. Rapid changes in the values of our real estate-related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the market value or income potential of real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the 1940 Act. Given the illiquid nature of certain real estate investments, we can provide no assurances that we would be able to liquidate our non-qualifying assets at opportune times or prices, if at all, in order to maintain our REIT qualification and 1940 Act exemption. Similarly, we can provide no assurances that we would have sufficient capital or access to capital at favorable prices, if at all, if we were required to increase our qualifying real estate assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification and 1940 Act exemption. If the value of our assets fluctuates dramatically, our ability to maintain compliance may be particularly difficult, which may cause us to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act considerations. Our current and future direct or indirect joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on joint venture partners’ financial condition and liquidity and disputes between us and our joint venture partners. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into, joint ventures, including with the Co-Investment Funds, the FDIC or otherwise, to acquire or originate our target assets. Such joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present when we acquire our target assets without partners, including the following: • we do not have exclusive control over the asset or joint venture, which may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest; • joint venture agreements often restrict the transfer of a partner’s interest or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire and/or on advantageous terms; 20 Table of Contents • any future joint venture agreements may contain buy-sell provisions pursuant to which one partner may initiate procedures requiring the other partner to choose between buying the other partner’s interest or selling its interest to that partner; • we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the asset or joint venture, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as asset acquisitions or disposition; • a partner may, at any time, have economic or business interests or goals that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • a partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act; • a partner may fail to fund its share of required capital contributions or may become bankrupt, which may mean that we and any other remaining partners generally would remain liable for the joint venture’s liabilities; • our relationships with our partners are contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the applicable joint venture agreements and, in such event, we may not continue to own or operate the interests or assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such interests or assets at a premium to the market price to continue ownership; • disputes between us and a partner may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business and could result in subjecting the assets owned by the joint venture to additional risk; or • we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of a partner, and the activities of a partner could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or remain exempt from registration under the 1940 Act, even though we do not control the joint venture. Any of the above might subject our assets to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and adversely affect the value of our current and future joint venture investments. We require additional capital to continue to operate and grow our business and portfolio of target assets, and the failure to obtain such financing would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to maintain our distributions to our stockholders. We require capital to fund acquisitions and originations of our target assets, to fund our operations, including overhead costs and the management fee to our Manager, to fund distributions to our stockholders and to repay principal and interest on our borrowings. We expect to meet our capital requirements using cash on hand, cash flow generated from our operations, and principal and interest payments received from our investments. However, because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a REIT, which generally require that we distribute to our stockholders 90% of our taxable income, our ability to finance our growth must largely be funded by external sources of capital. As a result, we will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including public and private offerings of securities and debt financings. Financing may not be available to us when needed, on favorable terms, or at all. In the event that we are unable to obtain adequate financing to fund or grow our business, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to acquire additional assets and make our debt service payments and our financial condition, results of operations and the ability to fund our distributions to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Investments Some of the loans in our investment portfolio are in the process of being restructured or may otherwise be at risk, which could result in impairment charges and loan losses. Some of loans in our investment portfolio are in the process of being restructured or may otherwise be under credit watch or at risk. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. If we determine that it is probable that we will not be able to collect all amounts due to us under the terms of a particular loan agreement, we could be required to recognize an impairment charge or a loss on the loan unless the loan’s observable market price or the value of the collateral securing the loan exceeds the carrying value of the loan. If our assumptions regarding, among other things, the present value of expected future cash flows or the value of the collateral securing our loans are incorrect or general economic and financial conditions cause one or more borrowers to become unable to make payments under their loans, we could be required to recognize impairment charges, which could result in a material reduction in earnings in the period in which the loans are determined to be impaired and may adversely affect, perhaps materially, our financial condition, liquidity and the ability to make distributions to our stockholders. An economic slowdown, recession or decline in real estate values may cause us to experience losses related to our assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations, the availability and cost of credit and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The risks associated with our investments may be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the mortgage market, the commercial real estate markets, the financial markets and the economy generally. In the recent past, concerns about the mortgage market and a declining real estate market, as well as inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets. Furthermore, an economic slowdown may result in continued decreased demand for commercial property, forcing property owners to lower rents on properties with excess supply. To the extent that a property owner has fewer tenants or receives lower rents, such property owners will generate less cash flow on their properties, which increases significantly the likelihood that such property owners will default on their debt service obligations to us. If borrowers default, we may incur losses on our investments with them if the value of any collateral we foreclose upon is insufficient to cover the full amount of such investment, and the funds from such foreclosure may take a significant amount of time to realize. For the foregoing reasons, a weak economy also may result in the increased likelihood of re-default rates even after we have completed loan modifications. In addition, to the extent that we acquire direct interests in commercial or residential real estate, an economic slowdown could adversely impact, among other things, the ability of our tenants to pay rent on a timely basis, if at all, and could result in tenants terminating their leases, choosing not to renew their existing leases or reducing the amount of space that they rent. A deterioration of the real estate market may result in a decline in the market value of our investments or cause us to experience losses related to our assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations, the availability and cost of credit and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, an economic slowdown, recession or decline in real estate values may cause lenders and institutional investors to reduce and, in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, including us, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, in the event that we seek to use leverage to acquire our target assets. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our assets. 22 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities, and competition may limit our ability to continue to acquire attractive investments on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire assets, including our target assets, at attractive prices. In acquiring assets, we compete with a variety of institutional investors, including other REITs, specialty finance companies, public and private funds (including other funds managed by Colony Capital), commercial and investment banks, commercial finance and insurance companies and other financial institutions, many of whom are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Several other REITs have recently raised, and may raise significant amounts of capital in the future, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which will likely create additional competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that may not be available to us, such as funding from the U.S. Government, if we are not eligible to participate in programs established by the U.S. Government as well as borrowings that are governed by the FDIC. In addition, many of our competitors are not subject to the operating constraints associated with REIT tax compliance or maintenance of an exemption from the 1940 Act. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, competition for investments may result in an increase in the price of such assets, which may further limit our ability to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. Moreover, as the conditions in the mortgage market, the financial markets and the economy improve, the availability of commercial mortgage loans that meet our investment objectives and strategies will likely decrease, which will increase competition and may limit us from making investments in our target assets. As a result of such increased competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and make additional investments that are consistent with our investment objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our real estate assets are subject to risks particular to real property, any of which could reduce our return from an affected property or asset and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our real estate investments are subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in, and related costs of compliance with, governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or asset and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make payments to us may be 23 Table of Contents reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we acquire a property through foreclosure or otherwise, the presence of hazardous substances on such property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. To the extent that we acquire direct interests in real estate, we will depend on our tenants for revenue and, accordingly, lease terminations and/or tenant defaults, particularly by one or more large tenants, could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that we acquire direct interests in commercial or residential real estate, whether through REO properties, properties that we triple net lease to others, residential properties that we rent or otherwise, the success of our investments will depend on the financial stability of our tenants, any of whom may experience a change in their business at any time. If current economic conditions do not stabilize or worsen, tenants occupying the commercial or residential real estate that we may acquire may delay lease commencements, decline to extend or renew their leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due, or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants’ leases, or expiration of existing leases without renewal, and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated or expired leases. In the event of a tenant default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as a landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If a significant number of leases, or leases for one or more large tenants, are terminated or defaulted upon, we may be unable to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. In addition, significant expenditures, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and insurance and maintenance costs, are generally fixed and do not decrease when revenues at the related property decrease. If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. A portion of our investments currently are, and in the future may be, in the form of non-performing and sub-performing commercial mortgage loans, or loans that may become non-performing and sub-performing, which are subject to increased risks relative to performing loans. A portion of our investments currently are, and in the future may be, in the form of whole loan mortgages, including subprime commercial mortgage loans and non-performing and sub-performing commercial mortgage loans, which are subject to increased risks of loss. Such loans may already be, or may become, non-performing or sub-performing for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, because the underlying property is too highly leveraged or the borrower falls upon financial distress, in either case, resulting in the borrower being unable to meet its debt service obligations to us. Such non-performing or sub-performing loans may require a substantial amount of workout negotiations and/or restructuring, which may divert the attention of our Manager and management from other activities and entail, among other things, a substantial reduction in the interest rate, capitalization of interest payments and a substantial write-down of the principal of the loan. However, even if such restructuring were successfully accomplished, a risk exists that the borrower will not be able or willing to maintain the restructured payments or refinance the restructured mortgage upon maturity. In addition, certain non-performing or sub-performing loans that we acquire may have been originated by financial institutions that are or may become insolvent, suffer from serious financial stress or are no longer in existence. As a result, the standards by which such loans were originated, the recourse to the selling institution, and/or the standards by which such loans are being serviced or operated may be adversely affected. Further, loans on properties operating under the close supervision of a mortgage lender are, in certain circumstances, subject to certain additional potential liabilities that may exceed the value of our investment. In the future, it is possible that we may find it necessary or desirable to foreclose on some, if not many, of the loans we acquire, and the foreclosure process may be lengthy and expensive. Borrowers or junior lenders may resist mortgage foreclosure actions by asserting numerous claims, counterclaims and defenses against us 24 Table of Contents including, without limitation, numerous lender liability claims and defenses, even when such assertions may have no basis in fact, in an effort to prolong the foreclosure action and force the lender into a modification of the loan or capital structure or a favorable buy-out of the borrower’s or junior lender’s position. In some states, foreclosure actions can sometimes take several years or more to litigate. At any time prior to or during the foreclosure proceedings, the borrower may file, or a junior lender may cause the borrower to file, for bankruptcy, which would have the effect of staying the foreclosure actions and further delaying the foreclosure process. Foreclosure and associated litigation may create a negative public perception of the related mortgaged property, resulting in a diminution of its value. Even if we are successful in foreclosing on a loan, the liquidation proceeds upon sale of the underlying real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us, and the borrower and junior lenders may continue to challenge whether the foreclosure process was commercially reasonable, which could result in additional costs and potential liability. Any costs or delays involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property, or defending challenges brought after the completion of a foreclosure, will further reduce the proceeds and thus increase the loss. Any such reductions could materially and adversely affect the value of the commercial loans in which we invest. Whether or not our Manager has participated in the negotiation of the terms of any such mortgages, there can be no assurance as to the adequacy of the protection of the terms of the loan, including the validity or enforceability of the loan and the maintenance of the anticipated priority and perfection of the applicable security interests. Furthermore, claims may be asserted that might interfere with enforcement of our rights. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. The liquidation proceeds upon sale of such real estate may not be sufficient to recover our cost basis in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. Any costs or delays involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property will further reduce the proceeds and thus increase the loss. Whole loan mortgages are also subject to “special hazard” risk (property damage caused by hazards, such as earthquakes or environmental hazards, not covered by standard property insurance policies), and to bankruptcy risk (reduction in a borrower’s mortgage debt by a bankruptcy court). In addition, claims may be assessed against us on account of our position as mortgage holder or property owner, including responsibility for tax payments, environmental hazards and other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our ownership of equity interests in an entity that owns a portfolio of hotels subjects us to various risks associated with operating in the lodging industry, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our future results of operations. We, together with an investment vehicle managed by affiliates of Colony Capital, recently foreclosed on a mezzanine loan that was secured by the equity interests in an entity that owned and operated a portfolio of 103 limited service hotels and took title to the equity interests in such entity. As a result, we own an indirect interest in the hotels previously owned and operated by such entity. Our indirect ownership and operation of the hotels subjects us to various risks common to the lodging industry that could adversely affect our results of operations, including, among others, the following: • Lodging assets have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets. A typical office property, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provides a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. Hotels, on the other hand, generate revenue from guests that typically stay at the hotel for only a few nights, which causes the room rate and occupancy levels to change every day, and results in earnings that can be highly volatile; • The lodging industry has been adversely affected by the recent economic recession and continued economic uncertainty to a greater extent than many other industries, and recent published reports predict that lodging fundamentals may not improve as quickly or to the extent previously anticipated. If the anticipated economic recovery continues to be weak and protracted, or if the U.S. economy falls into another recession, the performance of the hotels could be materially and adversely affected; 25 Table of Contents • To maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we generally cannot operate or manage the hotels. We may elect to treat the hotels as foreclosure property which will permit us to own an interest in the operating hotels for up to 90 days before we engage an independent third party to operate the hotels. Our net income from foreclosure property recognized during this period will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax. After the foreclosure property election has terminated, we must lease the hotels to one or more unrelated parties or lease the hotels to a TRS, which, in turn, retains third-party hotel managers to operate the hotels. A TRS is a taxable corporation and its net income from the operation of the hotels will be subject to U.S. federal and applicable state and local income taxes. In addition, we will be subject to a potential 100% penalty tax on “excess deductions” if the lease arrangements with a TRS are determined to result in rent payments and, thus, tax deductions by the TRS in excess of what would be paid in a similar business arrangement between unrelated parties; • We will not control the day-to-day operation of the hotels and must rely on the ability of the third-party hotel managers to operate the hotels successfully and in our best interests. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that the third-party managers do not perform to our expectations or otherwise do not manage the hotels in our best interests; • The hotels operate under franchise agreements that require maintaining the franchisors’ operating standards and satisfying other terms and conditions that could require the expenditure of significant amounts of money. Failure to maintain these standards or satisfy other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. The loss of a franchise license could materially and adversely affect the operations or the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor, which could adversely affect the financial performance of the hotels; • The lodging industry is highly competitive and other hotel owners may have an operating model that allows them to offer guestrooms at lower rates than those offered at the hotels we own an interest in, which could adversely affect demand for guestrooms and the financial performance of the hotels; • The seasonality of the lodging industry often results in significant fluctuations in occupancy, revenues and operating expenses, which could adversely affect the financial performance of the hotels; • Restrictive covenants in certain of the hotel management and franchise agreements may limit the ability to sell or refinance a hotel without the consent of the hotel management company or franchisor, which could materially impede our ability to take actions with respect to the hotels that are in the best interests of our stockholders; and • The performance of the hotels may be materially affected by events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel-related accidents and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes and environmental disasters. Any of the foregoing risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The supply of commercial mortgage loans that meet our investment objectives and strategies will likely decrease as the economy improves, which may cause us to adjust our investment strategies. We believe that there continue to be unique market opportunities to acquire commercial mortgage loans and mortgage-related assets at significant discounts to their unpaid principal balances. However, as conditions in the mortgage market, the financial markets and the economy improve, the availability of commercial mortgage loans that meet our investment objective and strategies will likely decrease, which could prevent us from implementing our business strategies. At such time, we will reevaluate our investment strategies with a view of maximizing the returns from our investment portfolio and identifying other dislocations and opportunities in real estate-related assets, but there can be no assurance that any of our strategies will be successful. 26 Table of Contents Concerns regarding the European debt crisis and market perceptions concerning the instability of the euro could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financing. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could materially adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. The commercial mortgage loans that we acquire or originate and the mortgage loans underlying our CMBS investments are subject to the ability of the property owner to generate net income from operating the property as well as the risks of delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a commercial mortgage borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property, such as a multi-family or commercial property, typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income producing property can be affected by, among other things, tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. In addition, to the extent that we originate loans, our ability to be paid principal and interest on a timely basis or at all will be dependent on the borrowers under such loans generating sufficient revenue to support their payment obligations to us. For instance, we participated with certain of the Co-Investment Funds in the origination of a loan to an entity engaged in the design, construction and sale of single family homes. If the residential housing market does not rebound from its prolonged downturn, the borrower under such loan may not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its payment obligations to us, and we could be required to take ownership of the assets securing the loan in lieu of full repayment of the principal amount and accrued interest on the loan. Most commercial mortgage loans underlying CMBS are effectively nonrecourse obligations of the borrower, meaning that there is no recourse against the borrower’s assets other than the underlying collateral. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral (or our ability to realize such value through foreclosure) and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow from operations and limit amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. 27 Table of Contents Our CMBS investments are subject to the risks of the securitization process, as well as all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. CMBS are subject to several risks created through the securitization process, as well as all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Subordinate CMBS are paid interest only to the extent that there are funds available to make payments. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. Furthermore, to the extent the collateral pool includes delinquent loans, there is a risk that interest payments on subordinate CMBS will not be fully paid. We may not control the special servicing of the mortgage loans included in the CMBS in which we invest and, in such cases, the special servicer may take actions that could adversely affect our interests. With respect to the CMBS in which we invest, overall control over the special servicing of the related underlying mortgage loans will be held by a “directing certificateholder” or a “controlling class representative,” which is appointed by the holders of the most subordinate class of CMBS in such series. To the extent that we acquire more senior classes of CMBS, we will not have the right to appoint the directing certificateholder. In connection with the servicing of the specially serviced mortgage loans, the related special servicer may, at the direction of the directing certificateholder, take actions with respect to the specially serviced mortgage loans that could adversely affect our interests, including, among others, by modifying the terms of the loans in a way that is not in our best interests or foreclosing on the loan prematurely, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If our Manager underestimates the loss-adjusted yields of our CMBS investments, we may experience losses. Our Manager values our potential CMBS investments based on loss-adjusted yields, taking into account estimated future losses on the mortgage loans included in the securitization’s pool of loans and the estimated impact of these losses on expected future cash flows. Based on these loss estimates, our Manager may either adjust the pool composition accordingly through loan removals and other credit enhancement mechanisms or leave loans in place and negotiate for a price adjustment. Our Manager’s loss estimates may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from such estimates. In the event that our Manager underestimates the pool level losses relative to the price that we pay for a particular CMBS investment, we may experience losses with respect to such investment. Our investments in non-investment grade rated loans, corporate bank debt and debt securities of commercial real estate operating or finance companies will be subject to the specific risks relating to the particular company and to the general risks of investing in real estate-related loans and securities, which may result in significant losses. Some of our investments do not conform to conventional loan standards applied by traditional lenders and either will not be rated or will be rated as non-investment grade by the rating agencies. The non-investment grade ratings for these assets typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, these investments have a higher risk of default and loss than investment grade rated assets. We also may invest in corporate bank debt and debt securities of commercial real estate operating or finance companies. These investments will involve special risks relating to the particular company, including its financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, business and prospects. In particular, the debt securities are often non-collateralized and may be subordinated to its other obligations. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade rated assets we may hold in our investment portfolio. These investments will also subject us to the risks inherent with real estate-related investments referred to in Annual Report, including the risks described with respect to commercial properties and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; 28 Table of Contents • the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks specific to the type and use of a particular property. These risks may adversely affect the value of our investments in commercial real estate operating and finance companies and the ability of the issuers thereof to make principal and interest payments in a timely manner, or at all, and could result in significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our B-Notes may be subject to additional risks related to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. We currently hold and may acquire additional B-Notes in the future. A B-Note is a mortgage loan typically (1) secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties (and therefore reflect the risks associated with significant concentration) and (2) subordinated to an A-Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. A privately negotiated intercreditor agreement between the holders of the A- and B-Notes may restrict the rights of the B-Note holders. In particular, the intercreditor agreement may prohibit the B-Note holder from calling the loan, making modifications with respect to the loan or filing a bankruptcy petition without the consent of the A-Note holder. As a result, to the extent that we acquire B-Notes, the A-Note holder may take actions that we do not agree with and that are not in our stockholders’ best interests. In addition, because the rights of the B-Note holder are subordinated to the rights of the A-Note holder, the B-Note may be the first to incur loss if the loan does not perform and the collateral value diminishes. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B-Note holders after payment to the A-Note holders. If there are insufficient funds after payment to the A-Note holders, we could incur significant losses related to our B-Notes, which would result in operating losses for us and may limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our existing mezzanine loan assets and those that we may originate or acquire in the future are subject to greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties. We currently own interests in mezzanine loans and may originate or acquire additional mezzanine loans (or interests in mezzanine loans). Mezzanine loans take the form of subordinated loans secured by junior participations in mortgages or second mortgages on the underlying property, or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. These types of assets involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property, because the loan may be foreclosed on by the senior lender. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements between the holder of the senior mortgage loan and us, as the mezzanine lender, may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, even if we are able to foreclose on the underlying collateral following a default on a mezzanine loan, we would replace the defaulting borrower and, to the extent income generated on the underlying property is insufficient to meet outstanding debt obligations on the property, we may need to commit substantial additional capital to stabilize the property and prevent additional defaults to lenders with remaining liens on the property. Significant losses related to our current or future mezzanine loans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 29 Table of Contents The bridge loans that we may originate and/or acquire will involve a greater risk of loss than traditional investment-grade mortgage loans with fully insured borrowers. We may originate and/or acquire bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition, construction or rehabilitation of a property. The typical borrower under a bridge loan has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under-managed and/or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management and/or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we bear the risk that we may not recover some or all of our initial expenditure. In addition, borrowers usually use the proceeds of a conventional mortgage to repay a bridge loan. Bridge loans therefore are subject to risks of a borrower’s inability to obtain permanent financing to repay the bridge loan. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and “special hazard” losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount and unpaid interest of the bridge loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected. We may acquire non-Agency RMBS collateralized by subprime and Alt A mortgage loans, which are subject to increased risks. We also may acquire non-Agency RMBS, which are backed by residential real estate property but, in contrast to Agency RMBS, their principal and interest are not guaranteed by federally chartered entities such as the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and, in the case of the Government National Mortgage Association, the U.S. Government. We may acquire non-Agency RMBS backed by collateral pools of mortgage loans that have been originated using underwriting standards that are less restrictive than those used in underwriting “prime mortgage loans” and “Alt A mortgage loans.” These lower standards include mortgage loans made to borrowers having imperfect or impaired credit histories, mortgage loans where the amount of the loan at origination is 80% or more of the value of the mortgage property, mortgage loans made to borrowers with low credit scores, mortgage loans made to borrowers who have other debt that represents a large portion of their income and mortgage loans made to borrowers whose income is not required to be disclosed or verified. Due to current economic conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and lower home prices, as well as aggressive lending practices, subprime mortgage loans have in recent periods experienced increased rates of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss, and they are likely to continue to experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher, and that may be substantially higher, than those experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. Thus, because of the higher delinquency rates and losses associated with subprime mortgage loans, the performance of non-Agency RMBS backed by subprime mortgage loans that we may acquire could be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. We may invest in derivative instruments, which would subject us to increased risk of loss. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may invest in derivative instruments. The prices of derivative instruments, including futures and options, are highly volatile. Payments made pursuant to swap agreements may also be highly volatile. Price movements of futures and options contracts and payments pursuant to swap agreements are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments, and national and international political and economic events and policies. The value of futures, options and swap agreements also depends upon the value of the assets underlying them. In addition, our assets are also subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges on which our positions trade or of our clearinghouses or counterparties. 30 Table of Contents We may buy or sell (write) both call options and put options, and when we write options, we may do so on a “covered” or an “uncovered” basis. A call option is “covered” when the writer owns securities of the same class and amount as those to which the call option applies. A put option is covered when the writer has an open short position in securities of the relevant class and amount. Our option transactions may be part of a hedging strategy (i.e., offsetting the risk involved in another securities position) or a form of leverage, in which we will have the right to benefit from price movements in a large number of securities with a small commitment of capital. These activities involve risks that can be substantial, depending on the circumstances. In general, without taking into account other positions or transactions we may enter into, the principal risks involved in options trading can be described as follows: when we buy an option, a decrease (or inadequate increase) in the price of the underlying security in the case of a call, or an increase (or inadequate decrease) in the price of the underlying security in the case of a put, could result in a total loss of our investment in the option (including commissions). We could mitigate those losses by selling short, or buying puts on, the securities for which we hold call options, or by taking a long position (e.g., by buying the securities or buying calls on them) in securities underlying put options. When we sell (write) an option, the risk can be substantially greater than when we buy an option. The seller of an uncovered call option bears the risk of an increase in the market price of the underlying security above the exercise price. The risk is theoretically unlimited unless the option is “covered,” in which case we would forego the opportunity for profit on the underlying security only to the extent the market price of the security rises above the exercise price. If the price of the underlying security were to drop below the exercise price, the premium received on the option (after transaction costs) would provide profit which, in the case of a covered call, would reduce or offset any loss we might suffer as a result of owning the security. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and certain commodity exchanges have established limits referred to as speculative position limits or position limits on the maximum net long or net short position which any person or group of persons may hold or control in particular futures and options. Limits on trading in options contracts also have been established by the various options exchanges. It is possible that the trading decisions may have to be modified and that positions held may have to be liquidated in order to avoid exceeding such limits. Such modification or liquidation, if required, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. We may invest in credit default swaps, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may invest in CDSs. A CDS is a contract between two parties which transfers the risk of loss if a borrower fails to pay principal or interest on time or files for bankruptcy. CDS can be used to hedge a portion of the default risk on a single corporate debt or a portfolio of loans. In addition, CDS can be used to implement our Manager’s view that a particular credit, or group of credits, will experience credit improvement. In the case of expected credit improvement, we may “write” credit default protection in which we receive spread income. We may also “purchase” credit default protection even in the case in which we do not own the referenced instrument if, in the judgment of our Manager, there is a high likelihood of credit deterioration. The CDS market in high yield securities is comparatively new and rapidly evolving compared to the CDS market for more seasoned and liquid investment grade securities. Swap transactions dependent upon credit events are priced incorporating many variables, including the potential loss upon default. As such, there are many factors upon which market participants may have divergent views. We may invest in construction loans, which may expose us to an increased risk of loss. We may invest in construction loans. If we fail to fund our entire commitment on a construction loan or if a borrower otherwise fails to complete the construction of a project, there could be adverse consequences associated with the loan, including: a loss of the value of the property securing the loan, especially if the borrower is unable to raise funds to complete it from other sources; a borrower claim against us for failure to perform under the loan documents; increased costs to the borrower that the borrower is unable to pay; a bankruptcy filing by the borrower; and abandonment by the borrower of the collateral for the loan. 31 Table of Contents Participating interests may not be available and, even if obtained, may not be realized. In connection with the origination or acquisition of certain structured finance assets, we have obtained, and subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, may obtain in the future, participating interests, or equity “kickers,” in the owner of the property that entitle us to payments based upon a development’s cash flow or profits or any increase in the value of the property that would be realized upon a refinancing or sale thereof. Competition for participating interests is dependent to a large degree upon market conditions. Participating interests are more difficult to obtain when real estate financing is available at relatively low interest rates. Participating interests are not insured or guaranteed by any governmental entity and are therefore subject to the general risks inherent in real estate investments. Therefore, there can be no assurance that such interests will result in additional payments to us. The residential mortgage loans that we may originate and/or acquire, and that underlie the RMBS we may acquire, are subject to risks particular to investments secured by mortgage loans on residential property. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property typically is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. In addition, if the federal or a U.S. state government imposes freezes on the ability of lenders to foreclose on residential property or requires lenders to modify loans, we may be precluded from foreclosing on, or exercising other remedies with respect to, the property underlying loans, or may be required to accept modifications not favorable to us. To the extent that we purchase or originate residential mortgage loans, we may be subject to liability for potential violations of predatory lending laws, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. Various U.S. federal, state and local laws have been enacted that are designed to discourage predatory lending practices. The federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (“HOEPA”), prohibits inclusion of certain provisions in residential mortgage loans that have mortgage rates or origination costs in excess of prescribed levels and requires that borrowers be given certain disclosures prior to origination. Some states have enacted, or may enact, similar laws or regulations, which in some cases impose restrictions and requirements greater than those in the HOEPA. In addition, under the anti-predatory lending laws of some states, the origination of certain residential mortgage loans, including loans that are not classified as “high cost” loans under applicable law, must satisfy a net tangible benefits test with respect to the related borrower. This test may be highly subjective and open to interpretation. As a result, a court may determine that a residential mortgage loan, for example, does not meet the test even if the related originator reasonably believed that the test was satisfied. To the extent that we originate residential mortgage loans, we would be required to comply with these laws. In addition, if we purchase residential mortgage loans from residential mortgage loan originators or servicers who failed to comply with these laws as an assignee or purchaser to the related residential mortgage loans, we could be subject to monetary penalties and the borrowers could rescind the affected residential mortgage loans. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against assignees or purchasers of high cost loans for violations of state law. Named defendants in these cases have included numerous participants within the secondary mortgage market. If any of our loans are found to have been originated in violation of predatory or abusive lending laws, we could incur losses, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. 32 Table of Contents Risks of cost overruns and noncompletion of renovation of the properties underlying rehabilitation loans may result in significant losses. The renovation, refurbishment or expansion by a borrower under a mortgaged property involves risks of cost overruns and noncompletion. Estimates of the costs of improvements to bring an acquired property up to standards established for the market position intended for that property may prove inaccurate. Other risks may include rehabilitation costs exceeding original estimates, possibly making a project uneconomical, environmental risks and rehabilitation and subsequent leasing of the property not being completed on schedule. If such renovation is not completed in a timely manner, or if it costs more than expected, the borrower may experience a prolonged impairment of net operating income and may not be able to make payments on our investment, which could result in significant losses. The value of our investment in First Republic Bank may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to maintain our status as a REIT and maintain our exemption from regulation under the 1940 Act. We currently own an indirect 0.6% common equity interest in First Republic Bank. First Republic Bank’s common stock is currently listed on the NYSE. As a result, the fair value of our investment may fluctuate quickly and significantly, regardless of the performance of First Republic Bank, due to a variety of market factors generally or applicable to financial institutions or otherwise. If the value of First Republic Bank’s common stock were to decrease significantly, we would be required to record an impairment charge or otherwise recognize a loss on our investment. In addition, if the value of First Republic Bank’s common stock increases significantly, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to remain exempt from regulation under the 1940 Act. Furthermore, if the value of First Republic Bank’s common stock were to increase significantly, we may not be able to sell such common stock because of the need to comply with the REIT gross income requirements. See “Business—Operating and Regulatory Structure.” Increases in interest rates could adversely affect the value of our investments and cause our interest expense to increase, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect our profitability as well as the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our investment in certain assets will generally decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our target assets is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates increased significantly, the market value of these investments would decline, and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. As a result, we could realize a loss if the investments were sold. In addition, in a period of rising interest rates, our operating results will depend in large part on the difference between the income from our assets and financing costs. We anticipate that, in most cases, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our assets. Rising interest rates may also cause our target assets that were issued prior to an interest rate increase to provide yields that are below prevailing market interest rates. If rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of our target assets with a yield that is above our borrowing cost, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends may be materially and adversely affected. An increase in interest rates may cause a decrease in the volume of certain of our target assets, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire target assets that satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and make distributions to our stockholders. 33 Table of Contents The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” Ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than longer-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. Because we expect our investments, on average, generally will bear interest based on longer-term rates than our borrowings, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our net assets. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields on the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur operating losses. As a result of the foregoing, significant fluctuations in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial conditions and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may experience a decline in the fair value of our assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. A decline in the fair market value of our assets may require us to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment against such assets under GAAP if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. If we experience a decline in the fair value of our assets, our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our portfolio investments will be recorded at fair value and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our portfolio investments will be in the form of positions or securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. Depending on whether these securities and other investments are classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, we will value certain of these investments quarterly at fair value, as determined in accordance with GAAP. Because such valuations are subjective, the fair value of certain of our assets may fluctuate over short periods of time and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Valuations of certain assets in which we may invest may be difficult to obtain or unreliable. In general, third-party dealers and pricing services heavily disclaim their valuations. Dealers may claim to furnish valuations only as an accommodation and without special compensation, and so they may disclaim any and all liability for any direct, incidental or consequential damages arising out of any inaccuracy or incompleteness in valuations, including any act of negligence or breach of any warranty. Depending on the complexity and illiquidity of an asset, valuations of the same asset can vary substantially from one dealer or pricing service to another. Therefore, conflicts of interest may exist to the extent that our Manager is involved in the determination of the fair value of our investments. Additionally, our results of operations for a given period could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. During periods of market uncertainty and volatility, the valuation process may be particularly challenging and more unpredictable. 34 Table of Contents Accounting rules for certain of our investments are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions, and changes in such rules, accounting interpretations or our assumptions could adversely impact our ability to timely and accurately prepare our financial statements. Accounting rules for mortgage loan sales and securitizations, valuations of financial instruments, investment consolidations and other aspects of our anticipated operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in preparation of financial information and the delivery of this information to our stockholders. Changes in accounting rules, interpretations or our assumptions could undermine our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial statements, which could result in a lack of investor confidence in our publicly filed information and could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Prepayment rates may adversely affect the value of our portfolio of assets. The value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. If we acquire mortgage-related securities or a pool of mortgage securities, we anticipate that the underlying mortgages will prepay at a projected rate generating an expected yield. If we purchase assets at a premium to par value, when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, the corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because we will have to amortize the related premium on an accelerated basis. Conversely, if we purchase assets at a discount to par value, when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans slower than expected, the decrease in corresponding prepayments on the mortgage-related securities may reduce the expected yield on such securities because we will not be able to accrete the related discount as quickly as originally anticipated. Prepayment rates on loans may be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the availability of mortgage credit, the relative economic vitality of the area in which the related properties are located, the servicing of the mortgage loans, possible changes in tax laws, other opportunities for investment, and other economic, social, geographic, demographic and legal factors and other factors beyond our control. Consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty and no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. In periods of declining interest rates, prepayment rates on mortgage loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline at the same time, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. In addition, as a result of the risk of prepayment, the market value of the prepaid assets may benefit less than other fixed income securities from declining interest rates. Recent market conditions may make it more difficult for us to analyze potential investment opportunities or our portfolio of assets. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to analyze effectively potential investment opportunities in order to assess the level of risk-adjusted returns that we should expect from any particular investment. To estimate the value of a particular asset, our Manager and its affiliates may use historical assumptions that may or may not be appropriate in light of the downturn in the real estate market and general economy in recent years. To the extent that our Manager uses historical assumptions that are inappropriate under current market conditions, we may overpay for an asset or acquire an asset that we otherwise might not acquire, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, as part of our overall portfolio risk management, we analyze interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our portfolio of assets. In conducting our analysis, we depend on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. Recent dislocations in the mortgage market or other developments may change the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes, which may adversely affect our ability to (1) assess the market value of our portfolio of assets, (2) implement our hedging strategies and (3) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility. If our estimates prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayments, we may incur losses that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 35 Table of Contents Many of our investments may be illiquid and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. Investments in mortgage-related assets generally experience periods of illiquidity, including during the recent period of delinquencies and defaults with respect to commercial and residential mortgage loans. The lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale or the unavailability of financing for these assets. In addition, certain of our target assets, such as B-Notes, mezzanine loans and bridge and other loans, are also particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower’s default. Further, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we or our Manager has or could be attributed with material, non-public information regarding such business entity. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments at advantageous times or in a timely manner if the need or desire arises, including, if necessary, to maintain our status as a REIT or to maintain our exemption from the 1940 Act. Moreover, turbulent market conditions, such as those currently in effect, could significantly and negatively affect the liquidity of our assets. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may cause us to incur losses. If we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our assets. If and to the extent that we use leverage to finance our investments that are or become liquid, the adverse impact on us related to trying to sell assets in a short period of time for cash could be greatly exacerbated. If borrowers under our loans or purchasers of our assets pay us in the form of debt or equity securities, a decline in the value of such securities could cause the value of our investment to decrease significantly or we could incur a loss, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our loans may contain payment-in-kind provisions that permit the borrower to pay us principal and/or interest in the form of debt or equity securities rather than cash. In addition, in connection with the sale of our assets, we may receive debt or equity securities as payment for all or part of the purchase price. To the extent that we receive debt or equity securities as payments-in-kind under our loan agreements or as full or partial consideration for assets that we sell, a decline in the value of such securities could cause the value of our investment to decrease significantly or we could incur a loss, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our investments may be concentrated and will be subject to risk of default. We are not required to observe specific diversification criteria, except as may be set forth in the investment guidelines adopted by our board of directors. Therefore, our investments may at times be concentrated in certain asset types that are subject to a higher risk of non-performance or foreclosure, or secured by a single property, related properties or properties concentrated in a limited number of geographic locations. To the extent that our portfolio is concentrated in any one region or type of asset, downturns relating generally to such region or type of asset may result in defaults on a number of our investments within a short time period, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, the value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Any credit ratings assigned to our investments will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions and we cannot assure you that those ratings will not be downgraded. Some of our investments may be rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings or Standard & Poor’s. Any credit ratings on our investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which would adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and could result in losses upon disposition or the failure of borrowers to satisfy their debt service obligations to us. 36 Table of Contents Our investments in joint ventures that do not use the U.S. dollar as a functional currency subject us to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. We have investments in joint ventures that are denominated in Euros, which exposes us to foreign currency risk. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on the valuation of our equity investments in foreign joint ventures. Although we generally use collars (consisting of caps and floors) to hedge the foreign currency exposure of our investments, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these equity investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, equity investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could adversely affect our receipt of distributions from these investments. Risks Related to Our Financing and Hedging Activities The documents that govern our credit facility restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and require mandatory prepayment in certain circumstances, either of which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The documents that govern our credit facility contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things may: • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to make certain investments; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to merge with another company; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to create, incur or assume liens; • restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to sell, transfer or restructure our assets for any reason; • restrict our ability to make distributions to our stockholders; and • require us to maintain certain financial coverage ratios. These restrictions may limit our ability to make additional investments and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects and financial condition. In particular, our credit facility has a covenant limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders for any fiscal year to the greater of (i) 95% of our net income (determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles), excluding non-cash impairment charges, write-downs or losses and (ii) the amount required to eliminate 110% of our taxable income as a REIT or such other amount as is necessary for us to maintain our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, during an event of default under the documents that govern our credit facility, we are restricted, in certain circumstances, from making any distributions in respect of our equity securities, including distributions to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT, which could cause us to lose our REIT qualification and become subject to U.S. federal income tax. Although our credit facility permits maximum aggregate borrowings of up to $175 million, the amount available for draw is limited to 3.5 times the annualized cash income (as defined in the Credit Agreement) from eligible assets. As of December 31, 2011, the maximum amount available for draw was $142.7 million, of which $69 million was drawn. If we are unable to acquire additional assets or the value of our existing borrowing base assets either does not increase or decreases, we will not be permitted to borrow the full amount committed by the lenders under our credit facility, which could adversely affect our overall liquidity position and our ability to continue to grow our portfolio. Our credit facility matures on August 30, 2013. Any loans outstanding under the credit facility upon maturity will convert automatically to fully amortizing one-year term loans payable in quarterly installments. As a result, it is likely that we will be required to sell assets, raise additional equity or other capital and/or obtain additional financing prior to 37 Table of Contents final maturity, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to do so on favorable terms or at all. In addition, the obligations under our credit facility are subject to mandatory prepayment in certain circumstances, including: • if the total amount outstanding under our credit facility exceeds the amount allowed to be drawn against the applicable borrowing capacity; • if we issue and sell any equity securities; and • if we receive payments representing a return of capital in respect of any commercial mortgage loan or other commercial real-estate related debt investment that we own. To the extent we are required to prepay amounts outstanding under our credit facility, such prepaid amounts will not be available to us for other purposes, including acquiring additional assets, which could adversely affect our growth and financial condition. Our credit facility permits us to incur significant indebtedness, which could require that we generate significant cash flow to satisfy the payment and other obligations under our credit facility. We may incur significant indebtedness in connection with draws under our credit facility. This indebtedness may exceed our cash on hand and/or our cash flows from operating activities. Our ability to meet the payment and other obligations under our credit facility depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in the future. Our ability to generate cash flow, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our credit facility. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our credit facility and other debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under our credit facility, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity. We may use additional leverage to execute our business strategy, which may adversely affect the return on our assets, reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and increase losses when economic conditions are unfavorable. Subject to market conditions and availability, we may use additional leverage to finance our assets through borrowings from a number of sources, including repurchase agreements, resecuritizations, securitizations, warehouse facilities and bank credit facilities (including draws under our existing credit facility). We may also seek to take advantage of available borrowings, if any, provided by the FDIC in connection with the acquisition of assets from the FDIC or provided under government sponsored debt programs to acquire all types of commercial real estate loans and other real estate-related assets, to the extent such assets are eligible for funding under such programs. Although we are not required to maintain any particular assets-to-equity leverage ratio, the amount of leverage we may deploy for particular assets will depend on our available capital, our ability to access financing arrangements, our Manager’s estimate of the stability of cash flows generated from the asset in our portfolio and our Manager’s assessment of the risk-adjusted returns associated with those assets. The percentage of leverage will vary over time depending on our ability to enter into repurchase agreements, resecuritizations, securitizations, warehouse facilities and additional bank credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities), our ability to participate in and obtain funding under programs established by the U.S. government, available credit limits and financing rates, type and/or amount of collateral required to be pledged and our assessment of the appropriate amount of leverage for the particular assets we are funding. We may use leverage at times and in amounts deemed appropriate by our Manager without approval of our board of directors or our stockholders. To the extent that we use leverage to finance our assets, our financing costs will reduce cash available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our financing obligations and, to the extent that we 38 Table of Contents cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to liquidation or sale to satisfy the obligations. We may leverage certain of our assets through repurchase agreements. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls, which may require us to sell assets at significantly depressed prices due to market conditions or otherwise, and cause us to incur losses. The satisfaction of such margin calls also may reduce cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. Any reduction in distributions to our stockholders may cause the value of our common stock to decline. Our outstanding indebtedness and indebtedness to be incurred in the future could subject us to increased risk of loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As deemed appropriate by our Manager in its discretion, we may incur indebtedness, which, together with our existing indebtedness, could subject us to several risks, including, among others, that: • Our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal of and interest on the debt or we may fail to comply with all of the other covenants contained in the debt, which is likely to result in: • acceleration of such debt (and any other debt containing a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision) that we may be unable to repay from internal funds or to refinance on favorable terms, or at all; • our inability to borrow unused amounts under our financing arrangements, even if we are current in payments on borrowings under those arrangements; and/or • the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with no assurance that investment yields will increase with higher financing costs; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities, stockholder distributions or other purposes; and • we may not be able to refinance debt that matures prior to the investment it was used to finance on favorable terms, or at all. Our access to private sources of financing may be limited and thus our ability to maximize our returns may be adversely affected. Even if we choose to use leverage to finance the acquisition of our target assets, our access to such sources of financing will depend upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including: • general market conditions; • the market’s view of the quality of our assets; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • our eligibility to participate in and access capital from programs established by the U.S. Government; • our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and • the market price of our common stock. Continued weaknesses in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect one or more private lenders and could cause one or more lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing or to increase the costs of such financing. In addition, several banks and other institutions that historically have been reliable sources of financing have gone out of business in recent years, which has reduced the number of lending institutions and the availability of credit. Moreover, the return on our assets and cash available for distribution to 39 Table of Contents our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that market conditions prevent us from leveraging our assets or cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. If we are unable to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, we may have to curtail our investment activities, which could limit our growth prospects, and we may be forced to dispose of assets at inopportune times in order to maintain our REIT qualification and 1940 Act exemption. As market conditions improve, structured financing alternatives are becoming more available, in addition to borrowings under warehouse and repurchase agreements, although these financing markets are still not functioning at normalized levels. Consequently, depending on market conditions at the relevant time, we may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to our stockholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our stockholders and other purposes. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or to dispose of assets at inopportune times, and could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. We may seek to utilize non-recourse long-term securitizations in the future, and such structures may expose us to risks, which could result in losses to us. In the future, we may seek to utilize non-recourse long-term securitizations of our investments in mortgage loans, especially loan originations, if and when they become available and to the extent consistent with the maintenance of our REIT qualification and exemption from the 1940 Act in order to generate cash for funding new investments. This would involve conveying a pool of assets to a special purpose vehicle (or the issuing entity) which would issue one or more classes of non-recourse notes pursuant to the terms of an indenture. The notes would be secured by the pool of assets. In exchange for the transfer of assets to the issuing entity, we would receive the cash proceeds on the sale of non-recourse notes and a 100% interest in the equity of the issuing entity. The securitization of our portfolio investments might magnify our exposure to losses on those portfolio investments because any equity interest we retain in the issuing entity would be subordinate to the notes issued to investors and we would, therefore, absorb all of the losses sustained with respect to a securitized pool of assets before the owners of the notes experience any losses. Moreover, we cannot be assured that we will be able to access the securitization market, or be able to do so at favorable rates. The inability to consummate securitizations of our portfolio to finance our investments on a long-term basis could require us to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or price, which could adversely affect our performance and our ability to grow our business. To the extent that we obtain additional debt financing, we expect that certain of our financing facilities may contain restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market value of our common stock. If or when we obtain additional debt financing, lenders (especially in the case of bank credit facilities) may impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt, make certain investments or acquisitions, reduce liquidity below certain levels, make distributions to our stockholders, redeem debt or equity securities and impact our flexibility to determine our operating policies and investment strategies. For example, the documents that govern our existing credit facility contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make certain investments, merge with another company, and make distributions to our stockholders. If or when we seek to obtain additional debt financing, we could be required to agree to similar or more burdensome restrictions on our operations. Furthermore, if we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements, and our lenders could elect to declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their respective interests against existing collateral. We also may be subject to cross-default and acceleration rights and, with respect to collateralized debt, 40 Table of Contents the posting of additional collateral and foreclosure rights upon default. Further, this could also make it difficult for us to satisfy the qualification requirements necessary to maintain our status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A default also could limit significantly our financing alternatives, which could cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or dispose of assets. Any warehouse facilities that we may obtain in the future may limit our ability to acquire assets, and we may incur losses if the collateral is liquidated. In the event that securitization financings become available, we may utilize, if available, warehouse facilities pursuant to which we would accumulate mortgage loans in anticipation of a securitization financing, which assets would be pledged as collateral for such facilities until the securitization transaction is consummated. In order to borrow funds to acquire assets under any future warehouse facilities, we expect that our lenders thereunder would have the right to review the potential assets for which we are seeking financing. We may be unable to obtain the consent of a lender to acquire assets that we believe would be beneficial to us and we may be unable to obtain alternate financing for such assets. In addition, no assurance can be given that a securitization structure would be consummated with respect to the assets being warehoused. If the securitization is not consummated, the lender could liquidate the warehoused collateral and we would then have to pay any amount by which the original purchase price of the collateral assets exceeds its sale price, subject to negotiated caps, if any, on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the securitization is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we would have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. Currently, we have no warehouse facilities in place, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain one or more warehouse facilities on favorable terms, or at all. Any repurchase agreements and bank credit facilities that we may use in the future to finance our assets may require us to provide additional collateral or pay down debt. Although under current market conditions we do not anticipate that we will utilize repurchase agreements and bank credit facilities (including term loans and revolving facilities) to finance our assets, we may utilize such arrangements in the future to finance our assets if they become available on acceptable terms. In the event we utilize such financing arrangements, they would involve the risk that the market value of the loans pledged or sold by us to the repurchase agreement counterparty or provider of the bank credit facility may decline in value, in which case the lender may require us to provide additional collateral or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to repay our debt at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless we are able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which we may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all. Posting additional collateral would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. If we cannot meet these requirements, the lender could accelerate our indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate our ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to implement our business plan. In addition, in the event that the lender files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, our loans may become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, thus depriving us, at least temporarily, of the benefit of these assets. Such an event could restrict our access to bank credit facilities and increase our cost of capital. The providers of repurchase agreement financing and bank credit facilities may also require us to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position that would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition and prospects could deteriorate rapidly. Currently, we have no repurchase agreements or bank credit facilities in place, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain one or more such facilities on favorable terms, or at all. 41 Table of Contents Our ability to transfer assets purchased in structured transactions with the FDIC is restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. With respect to the loan portfolios acquired in structured transactions with the FDIC, we are restricted from conducting a sale or disposition to a single buyer of two or more assets; selling or otherwise transferring any assets to any affiliate; financing the sale of any asset; selling any asset in a transaction that provides for any recourse; or making distributions until the FDIC debt obligation has been satisfied. As a result of these restrictions, we may be unable to take actions that would otherwise be in our and our stockholders’ best interests, including, among other things, selling certain assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification and/or our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our investments in international real estate-related assets are subject to special risks that we may not manage effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have invested in assets outside of the United States and, from time to time, may make additional such investments if our Manager deems the investments appropriate in its discretion. Our investments in non-domestic real estate-related assets are subject to certain risks associated with international investments generally, including, among others: • economic fluctuations in the international locations in which we invest; • the availability of capital to purchase assets located outside the United States may be unavailable on favorable terms or at all, or may be subject to non-customary covenants that hinder our operations; • the burdens of complying with international regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; • social, political and economic changes and disruptions; • tariffs and other trade barriers or restrictions; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulty enforcing contractual rights; • governmental currency controls; and • currency exchange rate fluctuations. If any of the foregoing risks were to materialize, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected. We may enter into hedging transactions that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and our exemption from the 1940 Act, part of our strategy may involve entering into hedging transactions that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the hedging instrument caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the hedging instrument). The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely affect our financial condition. 42 Table of Contents Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our results of operations, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT and our exemption from the 1940 Act, we may pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from certain hedging transactions (other than through TRSs) to offset interest rate losses is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the hedging counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the hedging counterparty owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying hedging transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may fail to qualify for, or not elect, hedge accounting treatment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in application of relevant accounting standards could materially increase earnings volatility. We are subject to earnings volatility because of our use of derivatives and accounting for those derivatives. This earnings volatility may be caused by hedge ineffectiveness, which is the difference in the amounts recognized in our earnings for the changes in fair value of a derivative and the related hedged item, and by the changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting (referred to as economic hedges where the change in fair value of the derivative is not offset by any change in fair value on a hedged item). If we did not apply hedge accounting or fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment for a number of reasons, including if we use instruments that do not meet the definition of a derivative (such as short sales), we fail to satisfy hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements or our instruments are not highly effective, the result could be an increase in volatility of our earnings from period to period. Furthermore, if we fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the losses on the derivatives that we enter into may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may vary substantially. The stock markets, including the NYSE, on which our common stock is listed, historically have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report and others such as: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • actual or anticipated changes in our business strategy or prospects; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; • changes in our earnings estimates; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • equity issuances by us, or stock resales by our stockholders or the perception that such issuances or resales could occur; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or the assets in which we seek to invest; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher yield; • the use of significant leverage to finance our assets; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • additions to or departures of our Manager’s or its affiliates’ key personnel; • actions by our stockholders; • changes in accounting principles; • speculation in the press or investment community; • the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report; and • general market and economic conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, our ability to execute our business strategy and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to make distributions to our stockholders in the future. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year in order to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy. To the extent we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report. Moreover, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to make distributions to our stockholders in the future. 44 Table of Contents Therefore, although we anticipate making quarterly distributions to our stockholders, our board of directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any such distributions. Although we currently do not intend to do so, until our portfolio of assets generates sufficient income and cash flow, we could be required to sell assets, borrow funds or make a portion of our distributions in the form of a taxable stock distribution or distribution of debt securities. To the extent that we are required to sell assets in adverse market conditions or borrow funds at unfavorable rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we could be required to utilize the net proceeds of our IPO or the private placement to fund our quarterly distributions, which would reduce the amount of cash we have available for investing and other purposes. Funding our distributions from the net proceeds of our IPO or the private placement may constitute a return of capital to our investors, which would have the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder’s investment in our common stock. Our board of directors will make determinations regarding distributions based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders are: • our inability to realize attractive risk-adjusted returns on our investments; • unanticipated expenses that reduce our cash flow or non-cash earnings; • defaults in our investment portfolio or decreases in the value of the underlying assets; and • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders in the future or that the level of any distributions we do make to our stockholders will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, distributions that we make to our stockholders will generally be taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income. However, a portion of our distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us or may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a stockholder’s investment in our common stock. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which could rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we decide to issue debt or equity securities in the future, which could rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us. 45 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”) may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. Our board of directors may elect to become subject to the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our then outstanding voting capital stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting capital stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (1) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of our voting capital stock; and (2) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting capital stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. These provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by a board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. The “control share” provisions of the MGCL provide that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding votes entitled to be cast by the acquirer of control shares, our officers and our personnel who are also our directors. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our stock. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Certain provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to adopt certain mechanisms, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of limiting or precluding a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. We have elected to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors. Our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of shares of our common stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 46 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Under Maryland law generally, a director is required to perform his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Under Maryland law, directors are presumed to have acted with this standard of care. In addition, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter obligates us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our charter and bylaws or that might exist with other companies. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management. Our charter provides that a director may only be removed for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled only by a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8%, by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8%, by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of such series or class of our preferred stock. Our board may, in its sole discretion, grant, and has in certain circumstances granted, an exemption to the stock ownership limits, subject to such conditions and the receipt by our board of certain representations and undertakings. Our charter also prohibits any person from (a) beneficially or constructively owning, as determined by applying certain attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, our stock that would result in us being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code or that would otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT or to have significant non-qualifying income from “related” parties or (b) transferring stock if such transfer would result in our stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons. The ownership limits imposed under the Internal Revenue Code are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our charter key off of the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. These ownership limitations in our charter are common in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements, and to minimize administrative burdens. However, the ownership limit on our common stock might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 47 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. New legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. Certain rules applicable to REITs are particularly difficult to interpret or to apply in the case of REITs investing in real estate mortgage loans that are acquired at a discount, subject to work-outs or modifications, or reasonably expected to be in default at the time of acquisition. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we do not qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax and potentially state and local taxes which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We have been organized and have operated and intend to continue to operate in a manner that will enable us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) as to our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the gross income and asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis (which, based on the types of assets we own, can fluctuate rapidly, significantly and unpredictably). Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements as described below. In addition, we will be required to make estimates of or otherwise determine the value of real property that is collateral for our mortgage loan assets. In some cases, the real property will be under construction or the subject of significant improvements, making such collateral even more difficult to value. There can be no assurance that the IRS would not challenge our valuations or valuation estimates of this collateral. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or in securities of other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 15% (extended through 2012) and is scheduled to increase 48 Table of Contents to ordinary income rates beginning on January 1, 2013. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the current reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, legislation that extends the application of the 15% rate to “qualified dividends” paid after 2012 could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for U.S. federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example, we may be required to accrue income from mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”), and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before we receive any payments of interest or principal on such assets. We may also acquire distressed debt investments that are subsequently modified by agreement with the borrower. If the amendments to the outstanding debt are “significant modifications” under the applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, the modified debt may be considered to have been reissued to us at a gain in a debt-for-debt exchange with the borrower, with gain recognized by us to the extent that the principal amount of the modified debt exceeds our cost of purchasing it prior to modification. As a result, we may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. In particular, where we experience differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares of common stock as part of a distribution in which stockholders may elect to receive shares of common stock or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are subject to U.S. federal and state income tax (and any applicable non-U.S. taxes) on the net income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Due to the nature of the assets in which we invest, we expect our taxable REIT subsidiaries will have a material amount of assets and net taxable income. Our TRS may have tax liability with respect to “phantom income” if it is treated as a “dealer” for U.S. federal income tax purposes which would require the TRS to mark to market its assets at the end of each taxable year. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 49 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forgo and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investment opportunities. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that we meet the REIT gross income tests annually and that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and certain kinds of MBS. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio, or contribute to a TRS, otherwise attractive investments in order to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income, increasing our income tax liability, and reducing amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, and may be unable to pursue investments (or, in some cases, forego the sale of such investments) that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of certain attractive investments. The failure of assets subject to repurchase agreements to qualify as real estate assets could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We may enter into financing arrangements that are structured as sale and repurchase agreements pursuant to which we would nominally sell certain of our assets to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase these assets at a later date in exchange for a purchase price. Economically, these agreements are financings which are secured by the assets sold pursuant thereto. We believe that we would be treated for REIT asset and income test purposes as the owner of the assets that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the assets during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. We may be required to report taxable income for certain investments in excess of the economic income we ultimately realize from them. We have acquired and may continue to acquire debt instruments in the secondary market for less than their face amount. The amount of such discount will generally be treated as “market discount” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accrued market discount is reported as income when, and to the extent that, any payment of principal of the debt instrument is made, unless we elect to include accrued market discount in income as it accrues. Principal payments on certain loans are made monthly, and consequently accrued market discount may have to be included in income each month as if the debt instrument were assured of ultimately being collected in full. If we collect less on the debt instrument than our purchase price plus the market discount we had previously reported as income, we may not be able to benefit from any offsetting loss deductions. Similarly, some of the MBS that we acquire may have been issued with original issue discount. We will be required to report such original issue discount based on a constant yield method and will be taxed based on the assumption that all future projected payments due on such MBS will be made. If such MBS turns out not to be fully collectible, an offsetting loss deduction will become available only in the later year that uncollectability is provable. 50 Table of Contents In the event that any debt instruments or MBS acquired by us are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments, or in the event payments with respect to a particular debt instrument are not made when due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid interest as taxable income as it accrues, despite doubt as to its ultimate collectability. Similarly, we may be required to accrue interest income with respect to subordinate MBS at its stated rate regardless of whether corresponding cash payments are received or are ultimately collectable. In each case, while we would in general ultimately have an offsetting loss deduction available to us when such interest was determined to be uncollectible, the utility of that deduction could depend on our having taxable income in that later year or thereafter. Finally, we or our TRSs may recognize taxable “phantom income” as a result of modifications, pursuant to agreements with borrowers, of debt instruments that we acquire if the amendments to the outstanding debt are “significant modifications” under the applicable Treasury regulations. In addition, our TRSs may be treated as a “dealer” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in which case the TRS would be required to mark to market its assets at the end of each taxable year and recognize taxable gain or loss on those assets even though there has been no actual sale of those assets. The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. Securitizations by us or our subsidiaries could result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, we could have “excess inclusion income.” Certain categories of stockholders, such as non-U.S. stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to any such excess inclusion income. In addition, to the extent that our common stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of any excess inclusion income. In that case, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. Moreover, we could face limitations in selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, which would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. We sell loans or other assets from time to time and those sales could be treated as prohibited transactions. We cannot make any assurance that we will not be subject to the prohibited transactions tax on some income we earn. The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We may acquire mezzanine loans for which the IRS has provided a safe harbor but not rules of substantive law. In Revenue Procedure 2003-65, the IRS provided a safe harbor pursuant to which a mezzanine loan, if it meets certain requirements, will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, 51 Table of Contents and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. We may acquire mezzanine loans that do not meet all of the requirements of this safe harbor. In the event we own a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor, the IRS could challenge such loan’s treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and gross income tests and, if such a challenge were sustained, we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Our ownership of TRSs has been and will continue to be limited and our transactions with our TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s length terms. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. TRSs that we have formed have paid and will continue to pay U.S. federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed by such domestic TRSs to us. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRSs has been and we anticipate that the aggregate value will continue to be less than 25% of the value of our total assets (including our TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we have monitored and will continue to monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. In addition, we have scrutinized and will continue to scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm’s length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we intend to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS. Our ability to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected by our ownership of equity interests in an entity that owns a portfolio of hotels if we choose to lease the hotels to a TRS and the lease with our TRS is not respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes, if our TRS fails to qualify as a “taxable REIT subsidiary” under the Internal Revenue Code, if our hotel manager does not qualify as an “eligible independent contractor,” or if our hotels are not “qualified lodging facilities.” • We may choose to lease the hotels to a TRS and if the lease with our TRS is not respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. For the rent paid pursuant 52 Table of Contents to the hotel lease with our TRS to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the lease must be respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as a service contract, joint venture or some other type of arrangement. We intend to structure our lease so that the lease will be respected as a true lease for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this characterization. • If our TRS fails to qualify as a “taxable REIT subsidiary” under the Internal Revenue Code, we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours is not qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. So long as the TRS lessee qualifies as a TRS, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant” with respect to our properties that are managed by a qualifying independent hotel management company. We believe that our TRS will qualify to be treated as a TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the status of our TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. • If our hotel manager does not qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” or if our hotels are not “qualified lodging facilities,” we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Each property with respect to which our TRS lessee pays rent must be a “qualified lodging facility.” We anticipate that all of the hotels leased to our TRS will be qualified lodging facilities. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code provide only limited guidance for making determinations under the requirements for qualified lodging facilities, and there can be no assurance that these requirements will be satisfied in all cases. The hotel management company that enters into a management contract with our TRS must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRS to be qualifying income for our REIT income test requirements. Complex ownership attribution rules apply for purposes of these ownership thresholds. Although we intend to monitor ownership of our stock by our hotel manager and its owners, and certain provisions of our charter are designed to prevent ownership of our stock in violation of these rules, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 