ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below, and risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Form 10-K. The risk factors described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may also be materially adversely affected by factors that are not currently known to us, by factors that we currently consider immaterial or by factors that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. If any of the following risks are actually realized, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements under “Special Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.” All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. Changes to Medicaid, Medicaid waiver or other state and local medical and social programs could adversely affect our net service revenues and profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived approximately 80% of our net service revenues from agreements that are directly or indirectly paid for by state and local governmental agencies, such as Medicaid funded programs and Medicaid waiver programs. Governmental agencies generally condition their agreements with us upon a sufficient budgetary appropriation. If a governmental agency does not receive an appropriation sufficient to cover its contractual obligations with us, it may terminate an agreement or defer or reduce the amount of the reimbursement we receive. Almost all the states in which we operate are facing budgetary shortfalls due to the current economic downturn and the rising costs of health care, and as a result, have made, are considering or may consider making changes in their Medicaid, Medicaid waiver or other state and local medical and social programs. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 permits states to make benefit cuts to their 21 Table of Contents Medicaid programs, which could affect the services for which states contract with us. Changes that states have made or may consider making to address their budget deficits include: • limiting increases in, or decreasing, reimbursement rates; • redefining eligibility standards or coverage criteria for social and medical programs or the receipt of homecare services under those programs; • increasing the consumer’s share of costs or co-payment requirements; • decreasing the number of authorized hours for recipients; • slowing payments to providers; • increasing utilization of self-directed care alternatives or “all inclusive” programs; or • shifting beneficiaries to managed care programs. Certain of these measures have been implemented by, or are proposed in, states in which we operate. For example, California has considered a number of proposals, including potential changes in eligibility standards or hours utilization and Illinois has delayed payments to providers. In 2011, we derived approximately 56% of our total net service revenues from services provided in Illinois, 10% of our total net service revenues from services provided in California and, 7% of our total net service revenues from services provided in Washington. Because a substantial portion of our business is concentrated in these states, any significant reduction in expenditures that pay for our services in these states and other states in which we do business may have a disproportionately negative impact on our future operating results. Provisions in the Health Reform Act increase eligibility for Medicaid, which may cause a reallocation of Medicaid funding. It is difficult to predict at this time what the effect of these changes would be on our business. If changes in Medicaid policy result in a reduction in available funds for the services we offer, our net service revenues could be negatively impacted. Further, in an effort to control escalating Medicaid costs, states are increasingly requiring Medicaid beneficiaries to enroll in managed care plans. Under a health reform bill signed into law in January 2012, Illinois set a goal to increase the percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries in Medicaid managed care plans from the current 8% to 50% by 2015. The difficulty of getting healthcare providers to agree to sign up for the plans, however, has proved to be a stumbling block to managed care enrollment. States are also increasingly requiring Medicaid beneficiaries to work with case managers. All states currently benefit from increased FMAP granted under the ARRA, which increases the share of federal dollars paid to states for services to Medicaid beneficiaries. The enhanced percentages were set to expire as of December 31, 2010 which would have occurred in the middle of most states’ 2011 fiscal year (July 2010 to June 2011). On August 10, 2010, President Obama signed into law a six-month FMAP extension through June 2011. The law scaled back the FMAP increase from the initial 6.2% to 3.2% for the first quarter (January 2011 through March 2011) and 1.2% for the second quarter (April 2011 through June 2011). It is difficult to estimate the impact lower FMAP increases is having on state budgets and particularly funding of Medicaid, Medicaid waiver or other state and local medical and social programs during the extension period and any subsequent changes to FMAP upon the expiration of the extension in June 2011. The Governor of Illinois has reported that state revenue is not sufficient to keep up with pension and Medicaid obligations. On February 22, 2012, the Governor of Illinois released his proposed budget for fiscal year 2013. He called for a $2.7 billion cut to the state’s $14 billion Medicaid program. Options to reach that goal include rate reduction and reform, eliminating some services, implementing utilization controls, and restricting Medicaid eligibility so that fewer people can qualify. Because a substantial portion of our business is concentrated in these programs, any significant reduction in expenditures that pay for our services may have a disproportionately negative impact on our future operating results. In February 2012, CMS agreed to allow Illinois to move forward on at least one of two efforts to combat Medicaid fraud. According to a letter from CMS to the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services, state health officials will be permitted to verify the residency of Medicaid applicants to prevent non-residents from fraudulently obtaining health benefits intended for Illinois residents. Illinois had also requested to be 22 Table of Contents permitted to verify income for qualification, but CMS’s letter did not address that. If Illinois identifies non-resident Medicaid beneficiaries and removes them from the Medicaid rolls or prevents non-resident individuals from becoming Medicaid beneficiaries, the number of consumers we serve in Illinois could be reduced, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Similarly, if CMS allows Illinois to verify income for Medicaid qualification and Illinois identifies Medicaid applicants or Medicaid beneficiaries who do not meet income requirements and prevents them from becoming Medicaid beneficiaries or removes beneficiaries from the Medicaid rolls, the number of consumers we serve in Illinois could similarly be reduced, which could also negatively affect our business. Changes to eligibility requirements or methods of reimbursement for home health aides in the Illinois Medicaid program could adversely affect our net service revenues and profitability. We derive approximately 46% of our revenue from the Illinois Medicaid program. On January 25, 2011, the governor of Illinois signed into law a comprehensive Medicaid reform law that is expected to achieve savings of $624 to $774 million over five years. Among other things, subject to federal government approval the law expands requirements for coordination of care for Medicaid beneficiaries, tightens the Medicaid eligibility process by requiring greater documentation to establish eligibility and requiring annual redetermination of eligibility. The law also establishes a moratorium on eligibility expansion and phasing out of permitting unpaid bills from one fiscal year to be paid in the following fiscal year. The law also will permit the state to move long-term care patients from institutional settings to less expensive community-based care. It is difficult to ascertain at this time what impact, if any, the new law will have on our business. If the law results in individuals having more difficulty in qualifying for the Medicaid program or results in fewer Medicaid beneficiaries qualifying for our services it would adversely affect our service revenues and profitability. Delays in reimbursement due to state budget deficits or otherwise have decreased, and may in the future further decrease, our liquidity. There is generally a delay between the time that we provide services and the time that we receive reimbursement or payment for these services. The majority of the 19 states in which we operate are operating with budget deficits for their current fiscal year. These and other states may in the future delay reimbursement, which would adversely affect our liquidity. Specifically, the State of Illinois is currently reimbursing us on a delayed basis, including with respect to our agreements with the Illinois Department on Aging, our largest payor. Our reimbursements from the State of Illinois could be further delayed. In addition, from time to time, procedural issues require us to resubmit claims before payment is remitted, which contributes to our aged receivables. Additionally, unanticipated delays in receiving reimbursement from state programs due to changes in their policies or billing or audit procedures may adversely impact our liquidity and working capital. Because we fund our operations primarily through the collection of accounts receivable, any delays in reimbursement would result in the need to increase borrowings under our credit facility. Our revenue may be negatively impacted by a failure to appropriately document services and resulting delays in reimbursement. Reimbursement to us is conditioned upon providing the correct procedure codes and properly documenting the services themselves, including the level of service provided, and the necessity for the services. If incorrect or incomplete documentation is provided or inaccurate reimbursement codes are utilized, this could result in nonpayment for services rendered and could lead to allegations of billing fraud. This could subsequently lead to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not covered, services provided were not medically necessary, or supporting documentation was not adequate. Retroactive adjustments may change amounts realized from third-party payors and result in recoupments or refund demands, affecting revenue already received. In addition, timing delays may cause working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent 23 Table of Contents billing and collection, is an important factor in achieving our financial results and maintaining liquidity. It is possible that documentation support, system problems, provider issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, which may materially adversely affect our working capital, and our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate this risk. The implementation or expansion of self-directed care programs in states in which we operate and the implementation of accountable care organizations (ACOs) may limit our ability to increase our market share and could adversely affect our revenue. Self-directed care programs are funded by Medicaid and state and local agencies and allow the consumer to exercise discretion in selecting home & community service providers. Consumers may hire family members, friends or neighbors to provide services that might otherwise be provided by a home & community service agency provider, such as our company. Most states and the District of Columbia have implemented self-directed care programs, to varying degrees and for different types of consumers. States are under pressure from the federal government and certain advocacy groups to expand these programs. CMS has provided states with specific Medicaid waiver options for programs that offer person-centered planning, individual budgeting or self-directed services and support as part of the CMS Independence Plus initiative introduced in 2002 under an Executive Order of the President. Certain private foundations have also granted resources to states to develop and study programs that provide financial accounts to consumers for their long-term care needs, and counseling services to help prepare a plan of care that will help meet those needs. Expansion of these self-directed programs may erode our Medicaid consumer base and could adversely affect our net service revenues. In October 2011, CMS published final ACO regulations establishing a shared savings program to facilitate coordinate and cooperation among providers to improve the quality of care for Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries and reduce unnecessary costs. CMS is encouraging healthcare providers, including homecare providers, to work together to better coordinate care for consumers. It may be difficult for home health agencies, such as ours, to participate in the planning process for formation of an ACO, and this may put us at a disadvantage in negotiating sharing of savings if we were to participate in an ACO. In addition, because other post-acute care providers can participate in the planning process, they may more readily participate in ACOs, and may attract referrals that otherwise would have been made to us. Participation in an ACO by our competitors in some markets may force us to participate as well, or if we do not participate, result in loss of business. Where we do not participate, we will need to mindful of quality measure criteria, and if we are unable to meet those criteria, we could be at risk for losing Medicare referrals. In addition, other savings programs similar to ACOs may be adopted by government and commercial payors to control costs and reduce hospital readmissions in which we could be financially at risk. We cannot predict what effect, if any, ACOs will have on our company. Failure to renew a significant agreement or group of related agreements may materially impact our revenue. In 2011, we derived approximately 43.2% of our net service revenues under agreements with the Illinois Department on Aging, 4.3% of our net service revenues under an agreement with Nevada Medicaid and 3.8% of our net service revenues under an agreement with the Riverside County (California) Department of Public Social Services. Each of our agreements is generally in effect for a specific term. For example, the services we provide to the Illinois Department on Aging are provided under a number of agreements that expire at various times through 2013, while our agreement with the Riverside County Department of Public Social Services is reevaluated and subject to renewal annually. Even though our agreements are stated to be for a specific term, they are generally terminable by the counterparty upon 60 days’ notice. Our ability to renew or retain our agreements depends on our quality of service and reputation, as well as other factors over which we have little or no control, such as state appropriations and changes in provider eligibility requirements. Additionally, failure to satisfy any of the numerous technical renewal requirements in connection with our proposals for agreements could result in a proposal being rejected even if it contains favorable pricing terms. Failure to obtain, renew or retain agreements with major payors may negatively impact our results of operations and revenue. We can give no assurance these agreements will be renewed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 24 Table of Contents Our industry is highly competitive, fragmented and market-specific, with limited barriers to entry. We compete with home health providers, private caregivers, larger publicly held companies, privately held homecare companies, privately held single-site agencies, hospital-based agencies, not-for-profit organizations, community-based organizations and self-directed care programs. In addition, certain governmental payors contract for services with independent providers such that our relationships with these payors are not exclusive, particularly in California. Our primary competition is from local service providers in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, political and marketing resources, name recognition or a larger number of consumers and payors than we do. In addition, some of these organizations offer more services than we do in the markets in which we operate. Consumers or referral sources may perceive that local service providers and not-for-profit agencies deliver higher quality services or are more responsive. These competitive advantages may limit our ability to attract and retain referrals in local markets and to increase our overall market share. There are limited barriers to entry in providing home-based social and medical services, and the trend has been for states to eliminate many of the barriers that historically existed. For example, Illinois changed the way in which it procures home & community service providers in 2009, allowing all providers that are willing and capable to obtain state approval and provide services. This may increase competition in that state, and because we derived approximately 60% of our home & community net service revenues from services provided in Illinois in 2011, this increased competition could negatively impact our business. Our competitors in some markets may participate in ACOs, which may force us to participate as well, or if we do not participate, may result in the loss of business. Also, where we do not participate we will need to be mindful of quality measurement criteria and if we are unable to meet those criteria we could be at risk for losing Medicare referrals. We cannot predict what effect, if any, ACOs will have on our company. Local competitors may develop strategic relationships with referral sources and payors. This could result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of consumers or payors, any of which could harm our business. In addition, existing competitors may offer new or enhanced services that we do not provide, or be viewed by consumers as a more desirable local alternative. The introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, in combination with the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue, a loss of market acceptance of our services and a negative impact on our results of operations. Our profitability could be negatively affected by a reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other payors. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we received approximately 12% of our net service revenues from Medicare. We generally receive fixed payments from Medicare for our services based on a projection of the services required by our consumers, which is generally based on acuity. For our Medicare consumers, we typically receive a 60-day episodic-based payment. Although Medicare currently provides for an annual adjustment of payment rates based on the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index, these rate increases may be less than actual inflation or costs, and could be eliminated or reduced in any given year. The base episode rate for home health services is also subject to an annual market basket adjustment. A market basket is a fixed-weight index that measures the cost of a specified mix of goods and services as compared to a base period. The home health market basket, which is used to adjust annually the Medicare base episodic rate for home health services, measures inflation or deflation in the prices of a mix of home health goods and services. This annual adjustment could also be eliminated or reduced in any given year. The Health Reform Act mandates a 1% reduction in the market basket update for 2011 and 2012 and a market basket productivity adjustment for 2015 and subsequent years. The market basket reductions may result in a negative adjustment. Medicare has in the past reclassified home health resource groups. As a result of reclassifications, we could receive lower reimbursement rates depending on the consumer’s case mix and services provided. Medicare reimbursement rates could also decline due to the imposition of co-payments or other mechanisms that shift responsibility for a portion of the amount payable to beneficiaries. Rates could also decline due to adjustments to the wage index. Changes could also occur in the therapy payment thresholds, or in 25 Table of Contents reimbursement for specific thresholds, such as the changes to home health episodes with varying levels of therapy visits. Our profitability for Medicare reimbursed services largely depends upon our ability to manage the cost of providing these services. If we receive lower reimbursement rates, or if our cost of providing services increases by more than the annual Medicare price adjustment, our profitability could be adversely impacted. The amount of reimbursement based on the home health market basket may be reduced with respect to an agency seeking reimbursement if certain requirements are not met. Reduction in the payments and cost limits for the identified basket of goods based on deflation or failure to meet certain requirements is referred to in the industry as a market basket reduction. The home health market basket increase is reduced by two percentage points to zero if an agency fails to submit certain required quality data. The required quality data consists of a set of data elements that are used to assess outcomes for adult homecare patients, which include, among other things, improvements in ambulation, bathing and surgical wound status. In November 2010, CMS released the Final 2011 Home Health PPS Update. CMS made some revisions to its proposed regulations regarding face-to-face-encounters. The physician or non-physician practitioner must have a face-to-face encounter with the patient within 90 days of the home health start date. If there is no face-to-face encounter within the 90 day period or if the encounter did not relate to the reason for home health, a face-to-face encounter must occur within 30 days after the home health start date. CMS emphasized that the certification must be dated by the physician (not the home health agency) and the patient must be under the care of a physician while receiving home health services. However, the face-to-face encounter is only required for the initial certification. The certifying physician may not be the home health agency medical director and the physician or non-physician practitioner may not have a financial relationship with the home health agency. CMS also required that for therapy services, a qualified therapist (not a therapy assistant) must assess the patient, measure progress, and document progress toward therapy goals at least once every 30 days. For patients requiring 13 or 19 therapy visits, the qualified therapist must perform this evaluation at the 13th and 19th therapy visit. The requirement was relaxed for patients in rural areas, requiring the qualified therapist evaluation any time after the 10th visit and not later than the 13th visit, and after the 16th therapy visit but not later than the 19th visit. If more than one therapy is furnished, an evaluation must be made by a qualified therapist for each therapy. The Final 2011 Home Health PPS Update set an effective date for the face-to-face encounter requirement of January 1, 2011. After pleas from home health and hospice provider associations, physician groups and others, CMS suspended the requirement until April 1, 2011. CMS also announced that it is going to assess a variety of home health issues, including the then current therapy threshold reimbursement. CMS also clarified its rules regarding change of ownership of home health agencies and the 36-month rule. If there is a change of ownership within 36 months of enrollment in Medicare or within 36 months of a prior change of ownership, the home health agency must undergo a new survey. CMS clarified that indirect ownership changes are not subject to the 36-month rule. There are also several exceptions to the 36-month rule but in order to qualify, the home health agency must have submitted two or more consecutive cost reports (excluding low utilization cost reports or no cost report). Exceptions to the 36-month rule include death of an owner and changes in business structure as long as ownership remains the same. In its March 2011 report to Congress, MedPAC made several recommendations that could adversely affect the home health industry and potentially our business, including recommendations that Congress rebase the payment system in a manner that would increase payments for non-therapy services and decrease payments for therapy services and a recommendation to impose a beneficiary copayment for individuals that do not begin home health services following an inpatient stay or a stay in a post acute care facility. The Health Reform Act requires CMS to rebase payments for home health services, reducing payments beginning in 2013 with a four-year phase-in and full implementation in 2016. On July 23, 2010, CMS published the Proposed 2011 Home Health PPS Update. A proposed overall reduction in the home health payment base rate of 4.9% included a reduction for each 60-day episode and the conversion factor for NRS of 3.79%. The 3.79% decrease, which also is imposed in 2012, is a result of the CMS determination that there has been a general increase in case mix that CMS believes is unwarranted. CMS believes that this “case-mix creep” is due to improved coding, coding 26 Table of Contents practice changes, and other behavioral responses to the change in reimbursement that went into effect in 2009, including greater use of high therapy treatment plans above what CMS believes is any increase in patient acuity. CMS warned that it will continue to monitor changes in case-mix. If new data identifies additional increases in case-mix, CMS will impose further reductions that will not be phased in over multiple years. On July 12, 2011, CMS also published proposed regulations that would require physicians or their designee to have a face-to-face encounter with a beneficiary in order to certify the beneficiary for home health services reimbursed by Medicaid. The Medicaid face-to-face requirements are essentially the same as those imposed for Medicare. The face-to-face requirement may make it more difficult for Medicaid patients to obtain certification for home health services which could result in a reduction in demand for our services. As mandated by the Health Reform Act, on October 20, 2011, CMS released final regulations for the Medicare Shared Savings Program. Although the Health Reform Act mandates that the program be established no later than January 1, 2012, CMS set start dates of April 1, 2011 and July 1, 2011. The Medicare Shared Savings Program is designed to give financial incentives to healthcare providers and suppliers that meet criteria established by DHHS that work together to manage and coordinate care through ACOs for fee-for-service Medicare beneficiaries assigned to the ACO by CMS to increase quality of care and reduce costs. Participating providers and suppliers would share in the savings generated and, in one of two plans, bear the risk of losses. In proposed regulations published April 7, 2011, CMS requested comments on a number of issues including the range of providers and suppliers that could participate in an ACO. Reaction to the proposed regulations issued on April 7, 2011 was generally negative especially with regard to start up costs, retroactive assignment of beneficiaries, antitrust issues, the proposed quality measures (both the number and complexity), and the lack of a model that only includes shared savings. The final regulations addressed several but not all of these concerns. The final regulations set a “savings-only model” where providers share any savings over a threshold amount but do not share any losses, as well as a two sided model where the ACO shares in the savings but is also at risk for losses. The number of quality measures is reduced by almost one half, and beneficiaries are assigned prospectively. In connection with the ACO rules, also on October 20, 2011, the FTC and the DOJ released a joint antitrust policy statement, the IRS released a fact sheet, and the OIG released an interim final rule with five fraud waivers (waiving prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Law, the Stark Law and the CMPL and laws regarding gain sharing arrangements.) The FTC and the DOJ antitrust policy statement addressed some but not all antitrust concerns. The OIG waivers set forth who would be protected by the waivers and under what circumstances. A home health agency cannot qualify for a waiver for activities during ACO pre-participation, which would include activities in the start-up period until an application is accepted but which CMS states could also occur during the participation period. Post-acute care facilities, such as SNFs and IRFs, can qualify for pre-participation waivers. Without a pre-participation waiver, it may be difficult for home health agencies, such as ours, to participate in the planning process for formation of an ACO and this may put us at a disadvantage in negotiating sharing of savings if we were to participate in an ACO. In addition, because other post-acute care providers, such as SNFs and IRFs, can participate in the planning process they may more readily participate in ACOs and may attract referrals that otherwise would have been made to us. On December 19, 2011, CMS announced 32 pilot “pioneer ACOs.” The first performance period began on January 1, 2012. Although provider and supplier participation in an ACO is voluntary, participation by our competitors in some markets may force us to participate as well, or if we do not participate, result in loss of business. Also, where we do not participate we will need to be mindful of quality measure criteria and if we are unable to meet those criteria we could be at risk for losing Medicare referrals. In addition, other savings programs similar to ACOs may be adopted by government and commercial payors to control costs and reduce hospital readmissions in which we could be financially at risk. We cannot predict what effect, if any, ACOs will have on our company. Pursuant to the Final 2012 Home Health PPS Update, CMS finalized a 5.06% reduction to the national standardized 60-day episode rates to account for its perceived nominal case-mix growth since the inception of the home health PPS through 2009, phasing in the reduction over 2 years. The reduction in calendar year 2012 is 3.79% and the remaining 1.32% will be applied for calendar year 2013. The effective market basket update for calendar year 2012 is 1.4% (resulting from a market basket update of 2.4% less the required reduction of 1.0%). Home health agencies that do not meet quality data reporting requirements have a market basket update of -0.6%. After applying the 3.79% reduction, the 60-day episode rate for calendar year 2012 is lower than the rate for 27 Table of Contents calendar year 2011. CMS also implemented several other changes that it had proposed in its notice of proposed rulemaking in July 2011. First, CMS removed two codes for hypertension from the home health PPS case-mix model’s hypertension group. Second, CMS revised payment weights to provide what it believes are more accurate case-mix payments, lowering the relative weights for home health episodes with a high number of therapy visits and increasing the weights for episodes with little or no therapy. The effect is to lower payments for home health episodes with high numbers of therapy visits and increase payments to episodes with little or no therapy. Third, CMS increased payments for episodes of care with three to five therapy visits so that these episodes have higher payment to cost ratios and reduced payments for episodes with 20 or just higher than 20 therapy visits so that episodes with approximately 20 therapy visits have more reasonable payment to cost ratio. Episodes with three to five therapy visits have a higher payment to cost ratio and receive higher payments and episodes of 20 or just over 20 visits have lower cost ratios. All changes were to be made in a budget neutral way. In addition, CMS clarified the definition of “confined to the home” (homebound status) for qualification for home health services and relaxed the requirement for initial physician certification for home health services permitting the patient’s attending physician at a hospital or post acute care facility to conduct the face-to-face encounter and inform the certifying physician of his or her findings. CMS also reported that for future rulemaking it plans to do further analysis of the costs for providing therapy visits and the use of therapy assistants and plans to make further rate adjustments in accordance with its findings. On February 13, 2012, the President submitted his 2013 fiscal year budget to Congress. The budget includes a co-payment of $100 per episode of care for individuals using home health services not preceded by a hospitalization to begin in 2017. Individuals that have first dollar coverage for Medicare copayments would be assessed a Part B premium surcharge. The President’s budget is a recommendation to Congress by the President. It is not possible to know at this time whether Congress will enact into law the President’s budget proposals regarding home health services. Any reduction in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements or imposition of copayments that dissuade beneficiary use of our services would materially adversely affect our profitability. Private payors, including commercial insurance companies, could also reduce reimbursement. Any reduction in reimbursement from private payors would adversely affect our profitability. Failure of physicians or non-physician practitioners to have required face-face-encounters could adversely affect our ability to attract new patients. The Health Reform Act requires a physician or non-physician practitioner to have a face-to-face encounter with each new home health patient. CMS is requiring an encounter related to the reason for home health services to occur within 90 day prior to the home health start date or within 30 days after the start date. The face-to-face encounter requirement for home health and hospice providers became effective April 1, 2011. We are required to have fully established such internal processes and have appropriate documentation of required encounters. In addition, as noted above, a face-to-face encounter requirement is proposed for Medicaid. If face-to-face encounters become burdensome, some consumers may not be able to receive home health services, which could have a negative impact on our future operating results. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Changes to the laws and regulations governing our business could negatively impact our profitability and any failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business. The federal government and the states in which we operate regulate our industry extensively. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, impose certain requirements on the way in which we do business, the services we offer, and our interactions with consumers and the public. These requirements include matters related to: • licensure and certification; • adequacy and quality of health care services; 28 Table of Contents • qualifications and training of health care and support personnel; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • addition of facilities and services; and • billing for services. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. These changes could reduce our profitability by increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing or decreasing mandated services, forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Failure to comply could lead to the termination of rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs, the suspension or revocation of licenses and other civil and criminal penalties and a delay in our ability to bill and collect for services provided. The Health Reform Act includes several provisions that may affect reimbursement for home health agencies. Congress directed the Secretary of DHHS to develop a program for value-based purchasing program for payments to home health agencies. The Health Reform Act also creates CMMI, to test payment and service delivery systems to reduce program expenditures. Among the issues that are to be addressed by CMMI are: allowing the states to test new models of care for individuals dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid, supporting “continuing care hospitals” that offer post acute care during the 30 days following discharge, funding home health providers that offer chronic care management services, and establishing pilot programs that bundle acute care hospital services with physician services and post-acute care services, including home health services for patients with certain selected conditions. We may have difficulty negotiating for a fair share of the bundled payment. In addition, we may be unfairly penalized if a consumer is readmitted to the hospital within 30 days of discharge for reasons beyond our control. The Health Reform Act also requires CMS to rebase payments for home health services, reducing payments beginning 2013 with a four-year phase-in and full implementation in 2016. Reductions may not exceed 3.5% of the reimbursement in effect on March 23, 2010. The Health Reform Act mandates a 1% reduction in the market basket update for 2011 and 2012 and a market basket productivity adjustment for 2015 and subsequent years. The market basket reductions may result in a negative adjustment. The Health Reform Act reduces total payments for all home health agencies for outliers from 5% to 2.5%, and, in addition, caps payments to any one home health agency to no more than 10% of the payments received by the home health agency in a year. The Health Reform Act provides for the appointment of a 15-member IMAB that will have authority to recommend cost cutting measures to Congress to control the growth of Medicare spending, reducing expenditures to certain targeted amounts and other changes to the Medicare program. The IMAB would be appointed by the President. Congress will be severely limited in its ability to debate or modify recommendations of the IMAB, giving the IMAB broad powers to reduce Medicare spending and modify the program. The Health Reform Act is broad, sweeping reform, and is subject to change, including through the adoption of related regulations, the way in which its provisions are interpreted and the manner in which it is enforced. The Health Reform Act is currently the subject of more than 20 constitutional challenges in federal courts. Some federal courts have upheld the constitutionality of the Health Reform Act or dismissed cases on procedural grounds. Others have held that the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance or pay a penalty to be unconstitutional, although none of the orders has enjoined its operation. The United States Supreme Court will review challenges to the Health Reform Act on March 26-28, 2012, including whether, if the health insurance mandate is not constitutional, all or some other portions of the Health Reform Act are not severable and cannot be implemented. A decision is expected by July 2012. In addition, there have been efforts in Congress to repeal or amend the Health Reform Act. It is difficult to predict the impact of the Health Reform Act due to its complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual or potentially delayed implementation, pending court challenges and possible amendment or repeal, as well as our inability to foresee 29 Table of Contents how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the law. We cannot assure you, however, that the provisions described above, or that any other provisions of the Health Reform Act, will not adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial results. We may be unable to mitigate any adverse effects resulting from the Health Reform Act. The HITECH Act established certain health information security breach notification requirements. A covered entity must notify any individual whose protected health information is breached. While we believe that we protect individuals’ health information, if our information systems are breached, we may experience reputational harm that could adversely affect our business. Recently, the OCR, which is charged with enforcement of HIPAA, has imposed substantial fines and compliance requirements on covered entities whose employees improperly disclosed individuals’ health information. Failure to comply with HIPAA and the HITECH Act could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. MedPAC made the following recommendations to Congress: • DHHS, with the OIG, should conduct medical review activities in counties that have aberrant home health utilization; • DHHS should implement the new authorities to suspend payment and the enrollment of new providers if they indicate significant fraud; • Congress should direct the DHHS to begin a two-year rebasing of home health rates in 2013 and eliminate the market basket update for 2012; • DHHS should revise the home health case-mix system to rely on patient characteristics to set payment for therapy and nontherapy services and should no longer use the number of therapy visits as a payment factor; and • Congress should direct DHHS to establish a per episode copay for home health episodes that are not preceded by hospitalization or post-acute care use. Many of the recommendations made by MedPAC in its March 2011 report to Congress could adversely affect the home health industry and potentially our business. We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our employment practices. Failure to comply with these laws, or changes to these laws that increase our employment-related expenses, could adversely impact our operations. We are required to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment, including occupational safety and health requirements, wage and hour requirements, employment insurance and equal employment opportunity laws. These laws can vary significantly among states and can be highly technical. Costs and expenses related to these requirements are a significant operating expense and may increase as a result of, among other things, changes in federal or state laws or regulations requiring employers to provide specified benefits to employees, increases in the minimum wage and local living wage ordinances, increases in the level of existing benefits or the lengthening of periods for which unemployment benefits are available. We may not be able to offset any increased costs and expenses. Furthermore, any failure to comply with these laws, including even a seemingly minor infraction, can result in significant penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain individuals and entities, known as excluded persons, are prohibited from receiving payment for their services rendered to Medicaid or Medicare beneficiaries. If we inadvertently hire or contract with an excluded person, or if any of our current employees or contractors becomes an excluded person in the future without our knowledge, we may be subject to substantial civil penalties, including up to $10,000 for each item or service furnished by the excluded individual to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed and exclusion from the program. 30 Table of Contents Under the Health Reform Act , beginning in 2014, if we continue to provide a medical plan, we will be required to provide a minimum level of coverage for all full-time employees. Should any full-time employee receive subsidized coverage through an exchange, we could be liable for an annual penalty equal to the lesser of $3,000 for each full-time employee receiving subsidized coverage or $2,000 for each of our full-time employees. The impact of these penalties may have a significant impact on our profitability. We are subject to reviews, compliance audits and investigations that could result in adverse findings that negatively affect our net service revenues and profitability. As a result of our participation in Medicaid, Medicaid waiver, Medicare programs, Veterans Health Administration programs and other state and local governmental programs, and pursuant to certain of our contractual relationships, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations by governmental authorities and other third parties to verify our compliance with these programs and agreements as well as applicable laws, regulations and conditions of participation. If we fail to meet any of the conditions of participation or coverage, we may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable surveyor or authority. Failure to institute a plan of action to correct the deficiency within the period provided by the surveyor or authority could result in civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of fines or other sanctions, damage to our reputation, cancellation of our agreements, suspension or revocation of our licenses or disqualification from federal and state reimbursement programs. These actions may adversely affect our ability to provide certain services, to receive payments from other payors and to continue to operate. Additionally, actions taken against one of our locations may subject our other locations to adverse consequences. We may also fail to discover all instances of noncompliance by our acquisition targets, which could subject us to adverse remedies once those acquisitions are complete. Any termination of one or more of our locations from the Medicare program or another state or local program for failure to satisfy such program’s conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenues and profitability. Payments we receive in respect of Medicaid and Medicare can be retroactively adjusted after a new examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of pre- or post-payment audits. Federal, state and local government payors may disallow our requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable because proper documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed necessary. In addition, other third-party payors may reserve rights to conduct audits and make reimbursement adjustments in connection with or exclusive of audit activities. Significant adjustments as a result of these audits could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In 2006, the federal government launched a national pilot program utilizing independent contractors known as recovery audit contractors, or RACs, to identify and recoup Medicare overpayments. RACs are paid a contingent fee based on amounts recouped. An initial demonstration project implemented in several states resulted in the return of over $900 million in overpayments to Medicare between 2005 and 2008 from various provider types. California was the only state in which we operate that participated in the initial pilot program. The RAC program is now permanently implemented in all 50 states. This expansion may lead to an increase in the number of overpayment reviews, more aggressive audits and more claims for recoupment. If future Medicare RAC reviews result in significant refund payments, it would have an adverse effect on our financial results. Under the RAC program, third party firms engaged by CMS conduct extensive reviews of claims data and non-medical and other records to identify potential improper payments under Medicare. In recent years, federal and state civil and criminal enforcement agencies have heightened and coordinated their oversight efforts related to the healthcare industry, including with respect to referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, joint ventures and other financial relationships among health care providers. Although we have invested substantial time and effort in implementing policies and procedures to comply with laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities arising from violations. A violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, 31 Table of Contents civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs or the suspension or revocation of our licenses to operate. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed upon us, we may suffer a substantial reduction in revenues. Negative publicity or changes in public perception of our services may adversely affect our ability to receive referrals, obtain new agreements and renew existing agreements. Our success in receiving referrals, obtaining new agreements and renewing our existing agreements depends upon maintaining our reputation as a quality service provider among governmental authorities, physicians, hospitals, discharge planning departments, case managers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, advocacy groups, consumers and their families, other referral sources and the public. While we believe that the services that we provide are of high quality, if studies mandated by Congress in the Health Reform Act to make public quality measures are implemented and if our quality measures are deemed to be not of the highest value, our reputation could be negatively affected. Negative publicity, changes in public perceptions of our services or government investigations of our operations could damage our reputation and hinder our ability to receive referrals, retain agreements or obtain new agreements. Increased government scrutiny may also contribute to an increase in compliance costs and could discourage consumers from using our services. Any of these events could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations and we may not be successful in managing this growth. Our business plan calls for significant growth in business over the next several years through the expansion of our services in existing markets and the establishment of a presence in new markets. This growth will place significant demands on our management team, systems, internal controls and financial and professional resources. In addition, we will need to further develop our financial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to effectively manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Future acquisitions or start-ups may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Our growth strategy includes geographical expansion into new markets and the addition of new services in existing markets through the acquisition of local homecare service providers. These acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties assimilating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees or consumers of acquired providers, and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired providers. In the past, we have made acquisitions that have not performed as expected or that we have been unable to successfully integrate with our existing operations. In addition, our due diligence review of acquired businesses may not successfully identify all potential issues. For example, we were unable to fully integrate one acquired business because we were unable to procure a necessary government endorsement. The failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could have an adverse impact on our operations. In the last three years, we have grown our business primarily through start-up, or de novo, locations, and we may in the future start up new locations in existing and new markets. Start-ups involve significant risks, including those relating to licensure, accreditation, hiring new personnel, establishing relationships with referral sources and delayed or difficulty in installing our operating and information systems. We may not be successful in establishing start-up locations in a timely manner due to generating insufficient business activity and incurring higher than projected operating cost that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 Table of Contents Effective January 1, 2010, CMS implemented a prohibition of the sale or transfer of the Medicare Provider Agreement for any Medicare-certified home health agency that has been in existence for less than 36 months or that has undergone a change of ownership in the last 36 months. CMS clarified its rules regarding change of ownership of home health agencies and the 36-month rule. If there is a change of ownership within 36 months of enrollment in Medicare or within 36 months of a prior change of ownership, the home health agency must undergo a new survey. CMS clarified that indirect ownership changes are not subject to the 36-month rule. There are also several exceptions to the 36-month rule but in order to qualify, the home health agency must have submitted two or more consecutive cost reports (excluding low utilization cost reports or no cost report). Exceptions to the 36-month rule include death of an owner and changes in business structure as long as ownership remains the same. These limitations may reduce the number of home health agencies that otherwise would have been available for acquisition and may limit our ability to successfully pursue our acquisition strategy. We may be unable to pursue acquisitions or expand into new geographic regions without obtaining additional capital or consent from our lenders. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had cash balances of $2.0 million and $0.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 we had $24.8 million outstanding on our credit facility. After giving effect to the amount drawn on our credit facility, approximately $7.4 million of outstanding letters of credit and borrowing limits based on an advanced multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $21.8 million available for borrowing under the credit facility as of December 31, 2011. Since our credit facility provides for borrowings based on a multiple of an EBITDA ratio, any declines experienced in our EBITDA would result in a decrease in our available borrowings under our credit facility. We have had the benefit of an accommodation from the lenders under the credit facility pursuant to which we were permitted to add back approximately $1.8 million to adjusted EBITDA for the purpose of determining availability under the credit facility. The effect of the add back was to increase availability by approximately $5.8 million until March 1, 2012. On March 1, 2012, the add back allowance was reduced by $200,000 and will continue to be reduced by $200,000 on the first day of each month thereafter until the add back is eliminated, which will result in a reduction in availability of $650,000 on the first day of each month thereafter until the add back is eliminated. We cannot predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts, our efforts to expand into new geographic regions or the associated capital commitments. If we do not have sufficient cash resources or availability under our credit facility, our growth could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing. In the future, we may elect to issue additional equity securities in conjunction with raising capital, completing an acquisition or expanding into a new geographic region. Such issuances would be dilutive to existing shareholders. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from consummating more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, and, in any event, does not permit the purchase price for any one acquisition to exceed $500,000, in each case without the consent of the lenders. The consideration we paid in connection with nine of the 12 acquisitions we completed in the past four years exceeded $500,000. In addition, our credit facility requires, among other things, that we are in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants set forth therein and that no event of default exists before and after giving effect to any proposed acquisition. Our ability to expand in a manner consistent with historic practices may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consent from our lenders. Access to additional capital and credit markets, at a reasonable cost, may be necessary for us to fund our operations, including potential acquisitions and working capital requirements. We currently rely on one financial institution for funding under our credit facility and any instability in the financial markets or the negative impact of local, national and worldwide economic conditions on that financial institution could impact our short and long-term liquidity needs to meet our business requirements. 33 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by labor relations matters. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because our hourly workforce is highly unionized. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 69% of our hourly workforce was represented by two national unions, including the Service Employees International Union, which is our largest union. Our local labor agreements will be negotiated as they expire, which will occur at various times through 2012. Upon expiration of these collective bargaining agreements, we may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with these labor unions. A strike, work stoppage or other slowdown could result in a disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business. Labor costs are the most significant component of our total expenditures and, therefore, an increase in the cost of labor could significantly harm our business. Migration of our consumers to Medicare managed care providers could negatively impact our operating results. Historically, we have generated a substantial portion of our net service revenues from Medicare and certain other payors on an episodic, prospective basis. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the United States Congress allocated significant additional funds and other incentives to Medicare managed care providers in order to promote greater participation in those plans by Medicare beneficiaries. These managed care providers typically reimburse us after services are provided, and then on a fee-for-service or per visit basis. Our margins on services provided to managed care providers are lower than our margins on services provided on an episodic basis and paid for on a prospective basis. If these allocations of funds have the intended result, our margins could decline, which could cause our operating results to suffer. In addition, due to the allocation by Congress of significant additional funds and other incentives to Medicare managed care providers in order to promote greater participation in those plans by Medicare beneficiaries, the size of the Medicare fee-for-service market could decline, thereby reducing the number of our consumers, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Managed care organizations and other third party payors continue to consolidate, which enhances their ability to influence the delivery of healthcare services. Consequently, the healthcare needs of consumers in the United States are increasingly served by a smaller number of managed care organizations. These organizations generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers. Our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if these organizations terminate us as a provider and/or engage our competitors as a preferred or exclusive provider. In addition, should private payors, including managed care payors, seek to negotiate additional discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to react competitively to new developments, our operating results may suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other health care providers, including potential or current referral sources. We are required to comply with federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or other financial arrangements that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular medical services provider. In addition, certain financial relationships, including ownership interests and compensation arrangements, between physicians and providers of designated health services, such as our company, to whom those physicians refer patients, are prohibited by the Stark Law and similar state laws. Under both the Anti-Kickback Laws and the Stark Law, there are a number of safe harbors and exceptions that permit certain carefully constrained relationships. For example, we currently utilize the personal services exception to the Stark Law for our contractual relationships with certain physicians who provide medical director services to our company and who are current or potential referral sources. Courts or regulatory agencies 34 Table of Contents may interpret the federal Anti-Kickback Law, the Stark Law and similar state laws regulating relationships between health care providers and physicians in ways that will implicate our business. Provisions in the Health Reform Act make it easier to prosecute an Anti-Kickback Law violation as it is no longer necessary for the government to prove that a person had the specific intent to violate the statute. The Health Reform Act permits the government or a whistleblower to file an action under the False Claims Act if there an arrangement that violates the Anti-Kickback Law or the Stark Law. In addition, the DHHS may withhold payments if it believes in its discretion that there is credible evidence of fraud. Violations of these laws could lead to fines and exclusions or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission of privacy of health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, such as payors, business associates and consumers. These include standards for common health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information, the use of electronic signatures, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals and security, privacy and enforcement. The HITECH Act amended HIPAA to impose new requirements for protecting the privacy and security of individuals’ health information, requirements to notify individuals and in some circumstances the media if there is a breach of individuals’ health information, and imposed a four-tier system of enhanced financial penalties. We could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions if we fail to comply with these standards. New standards and regulations may be adopted governing the use, disclosure and transmission of health information with which we may be required to comply. New standards and regulations may be adopted governing the use, disclosure and transmission of health information with which we may be required to comply. We could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions if we fail to comply with these standards. Our operations subject us to risk of litigation. Operating in the homecare industry exposes us to an inherent risk of wrongful death, personal injury, professional malpractice and other potential claims or litigation brought by our consumers and employees. Because we operate in this industry, from time to time, we are subject to claims alleging that we did not properly treat or care for a consumer that we failed to follow internal or external procedures that resulted in death or harm to a consumer or that our employees mistreated our consumers, resulting in death or harm. We are also subject to claims arising out of accidents involving vehicle collisions brought by consumers whom we are transporting or from employees driving to or from home visits. We operate five adult day centers which provide transportation for our elderly and disabled consumers. Each of our vehicles transports seven to 14 passengers to and from our locations. The concentration of consumers in one vehicle increases the risk of larger claims being brought against us in the event of an accident. In addition, regulatory agencies may initiate administrative proceedings alleging violations of statutes and regulations arising from our services and seek to impose monetary penalties on us. We could be required to pay substantial amounts to respond to regulatory investigations or, if we do not prevail, damages or penalties arising from these legal proceedings. We also are subject to potential lawsuits under the False Claims Act or other federal and state whistleblower statutes designed to combat fraud and abuse in our industry. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary awards or penalties which may not be covered by our insurance. If our third-party insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves are not adequate to cover these claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in our defense, civil lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could distract management from running our business or irreparably damage our reputation. Our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs. Although we maintain insurance consistent with industry practice, the insurance we maintain may not be sufficient to satisfy all claims made against us. For example, we have a $350,000 deductible per person/per 35 Table of Contents occurrence under our workers’ compensation insurance program. We cannot assure you that claims will not be made in the future in excess of the limits of our insurance, and any such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, may have a material adverse effect on our business or assets. We utilize historical data to estimate our reserves for our insurance programs. If losses on asserted claims exceed the current insurance coverage and accrued reserves, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Changes in our annual insurance costs and self-insured retention limits depend in large part on the insurance market, and insurance coverage may not continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. Inclement weather or natural disasters may impact our ability to provide services. Inclement weather may prevent our employees from providing authorized services. We are not paid for authorized services that are not delivered due to these weather events. Furthermore, prolonged inclement weather or the occurrence of natural disasters in the markets in which we operate could disrupt our relationships with consumers, employees and referral sources located in affected areas and, in the case of our corporate office, our ability to provide administrative support services, including billing and collection services. For example, our corporate headquarters and a number of our agencies are located in the Midwestern United States and California, increasing our exposure to blizzards and other major snowstorms, ice storms, tornados, flooding and earthquakes. Future inclement weather or natural disasters may adversely affect our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on our information systems. Our operations may be disrupted if we are unable to effectively integrate, manage and maintain the security of our information systems. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, gathering information to improve the quality of consumer care, optimizing financial performance, adjusting consumer mix, monitoring regulatory compliance and enhancing staff efficiency. We rely on an external service provider, McKesson, to provide continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement of our primary information systems used for our operational needs. The software we license from McKesson supports intake, personnel scheduling, office clinical and centralized billing and receivables management in an integrated database, enabling us to standardize the care delivered across our network of locations and monitor our performance and consumer outcomes. To the extent that McKesson becomes insolvent or fails to support the software or systems, or if we lose our license with McKesson, our operations could be negatively affected. We also depend upon a proprietary payroll management system that includes a feature for general ledger population, tax reporting, managing wage assignments and garnishments, on-site check printing, direct-deposit paychecks and customizable heuristic analytical controls. If we experience a reduction or interruption in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems, or fail to restore our information systems after such a reduction or interruption, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Because of the confidential health information and consumer records we store and transmit, loss of electronically-stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation and liability. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to process transactions and produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and consumer data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many 36 Table of Contents sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of consumers if security breaches are not prevented. The agreements that govern our credit facility contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. Our credit facility agreement requires us to comply with customary financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain a maximum fixed charge ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, and limit our capital expenditures. Our credit facility also includes non-financial covenants including restrictions on our ability to: • transfer assets, enter into mergers, make acquisitions or experience fundamental changes; • make investments, loans and advances; • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee obligations; • create liens on assets; • enter into affiliate transactions; • enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business; • incur capital lease obligations; and • make capital expenditures. The restrictions in our credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us, and they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. Eos Capital Partners III, L.P. and Eos Partners SBIC III, L.P., or the Eos Funds, together beneficially own approximately 37.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the Eos Funds have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • changes to the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers; • proposed mergers, consolidations or other business combinations; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our shares of common stock. In addition, two of our directors are affiliated with the Eos Funds. This concentration of ownership of shares of our common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of shares of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. The interests of the Eos Funds may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our stock price. 37 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. We must attract and retain qualified personnel in the markets in which we operate in order to provide our services. We compete for personnel with other providers of social and medical services as well as companies in other service-based industries. Competition may be greater for skilled personnel, such as regional and agency directors, therapists and registered nurses. Our ability to attract and retain personnel depends on several factors, including our ability to provide employees with attractive assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. The loss of one or more of the members of the executive management team or the inability of a new management team to successfully execute our strategies may adversely affect our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to provide our services, the quality of our services may decline, and we could lose consumers and referral sources. We may be more vulnerable to the effects of a public health catastrophe than other businesses due to the nature of our consumers. The majority of our consumers are older individuals with complex medical challenges, many of whom may be more vulnerable than the general public during a pandemic or in a public health catastrophe. Our employees are also at greater risk of contracting contagious diseases due to their increased exposure to vulnerable consumers. For example, if a flu pandemic were to occur, we could suffer significant losses to our consumer population or a reduction in the availability of our employees and, at a high cost, be required to hire replacements for affected workers. Accordingly, certain public health catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued employment of certain members of our senior management team. We also depend upon the continued employment of the individuals that manage several of our key functional areas, including operations, business development, accounting, finance, human resources, marketing, information systems, contracting and compliance. The departure of any member of our senior management team may materially adversely affect our operations. If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill and/or our intangible assets, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected. Goodwill and intangible assets with finite lives represent a significant portion of our assets. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it might indicate a decline in our fair value and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. If as part of our annual review of goodwill and intangibles, we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill and/or intangible assets, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected, which could affect our flexibility to obtain additional financing. In addition, if our assumptions used in preparing our valuations of our reporting units for purposes of impairment testing differ materially from actual future results, we may record impairment charges in the future and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. We had $50.7 million of goodwill and $8.0 million of intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011. In light of the current Federal and state economic and reimbursement environments and state budgetary pressures to decrease or eliminate services we provide, we completed a preliminary assessment of fair value of our two reporting units and the potential for goodwill impairment as of June 30, 2011. Our total stockholders’ equity as of September 30, 2011 was significantly greater than our market capitalization. Based on updates to our business projections and forecasts, and other factors, we determined that the estimated fair value of our home health reporting unit was less than the net book value indicating that its allocated goodwill was impaired. The preliminary assessment for the home & community reportable segment indicated that its fair value was greater than its net book value with no initial indication of goodwill impairment. 38 Table of Contents As permitted by ASC Topic 350 “Goodwill and Intangible Assets”, when an impairment indicator arises toward the end of an interim reporting period, a company may recognize its best estimate of that impairment loss. Based on our preliminary analysis prepared as of June 30, 2011, we determined that all of the $13.1 million allocated to goodwill for the home health reportable unit as of September 30, 2011 was impaired and recorded a goodwill impairment loss in the third quarter of 2011. In connection with our preliminary assessment of fair value discussed above, we also determined that all of the $2.9 million allocated to identifiable intangible assets and indefinite-lived assets for the home health reportable unit as of September 30, 2011 was impaired and recorded an impairment loss in the third quarter of 2011. The analysis prepared as of June 30, 2011 was preliminary and subject to the completion of our annual impairment test as of October 1, 2011. We completed our annual impairment test of goodwill as of October 1, 2011 and determined that no additional impairment charges or adjustments were required. The goodwill for the Company’s two reporting units, home & community and home health was $50.7 million and $0, respectively. Home & community had fair values in excess of carrying amounts of approximately $9.1 million, or 8.9% as of October 1, 2011. Should business conditions or other factors deteriorate and negatively impact the estimated realizable value of future cash flows of our business segments, we could be required to write off a substantial portion of our remaining assets. Depending upon the magnitude of the write-off, our results of operations could be negatively affected. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment charge would result from these factors, or if it does, whether such charges would be material. We will continue to review our goodwill and other intangible assets for possible impairment. We cannot be certain that a downturn in our business or changes in market conditions will not result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets and the recognition of resulting expenses in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of all securities, including securities of health care companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • we have a small base of registered shares of common stock consisting of the 5.4 million shares we issued in our initial public offering (“IPO”), which represents approximately 50.1% of our total common shares outstanding, that could result in significant stock price movements upward or downward based on low levels of trading volume in our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor perception of our business and our prospects; • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or • general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of homecare companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating 39 Table of Contents performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. We have been and may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend solely on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our shares of common stock and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business and for general corporate purposes. In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. If securities or industry analysts fail to publish research or reports about our business or publish negative research or reports, or our results are below analysts’ estimates, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may depend in part on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If analysts fail to publish reports on us regularly or at all, we could fail to gain visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. If one or more analysts do cover us and downgrade their evaluations of our stock or our results are below analysts’ estimates, our stock price would likely decline. In addition, due to the small number of analysts covering us, a single comment or report from one of the analysts whether positive or negative, could result in a significant increase or decrease in our stock price. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management without the consent of the board of directors. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include: • a staggered board of directors; • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. However, because the Eos Funds acquired their shares prior to our initial public offering completed on November 2, 2009, Section 203 is currently inapplicable to any business combination with the Eos Funds or their affiliates. In addition, our amended and restated bylaws require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. 40 Table of Contents If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our business and stock price could be adversely impacted. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires our management to report on, and may require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. It is likely that we will not be required to comply with the reporting requirements under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the 2012 calendar year since our public float is currently significantly below the $75.0 million threshold for becoming an accelerated filer. Compliance with SEC regulations adopted pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This requirement increases our legal and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place strain on our personnel, systems and resources. Compliance with public reporting and Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements will require us to build out our compliance, accounting and finance staff. In connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. Moreover, if we fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions, our ability to raise capital could be impaired, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and our stock price could be adversely affected. In addition, we could have undetected internal control weaknesses and deficiencies if we continue to not be required to comply with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which would require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses and pose challenges for our management team. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated there-under, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the U.S. public markets. We are committed to maintaining high standards of internal controls over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Declines in earnings could create future liquidity problems. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility is based on the lesser of (i) the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined, for the most recent 12-month period multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.25, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit or (ii) $55.0 million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. As of December 31, 2011 our total availability under our credit facility was $21.8 million. We have had the benefit of an accommodation from the lenders under the credit facility pursuant to which we were permitted to add back approximately $1.8 million to adjusted EBITDA for the purpose of determining availability under the credit facility. The effect of the add back was to increase availability by approximately 41 Table of Contents $5.8 million until March 1, 2012. On March 1, 2012, the add back allowance was reduced by $200,000 and will continue to be reduced by $200,000 on the first day of each month thereafter until the add back is eliminated, which will result in a reduction in availability of $650,000 on the first day of each month thereafter until the add back is eliminated. The current Federal and state economic and reimbursement environments and state budgetary pressures to decrease or eliminate services we provide could negatively affect our future earnings. This decrease in earnings would reduce the availability of funds under our credit facility which could have a negative impact on our future operating results. 