ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below, and risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Form 10-K. The risk factors described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may also be materially adversely affected by factors that are not currently known to us, by factors that we currently consider immaterial or by factors that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. If any of the following risks are actually realized, our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements under “Special Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.” All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below. 16 Table of Contents Changes to Medicaid, Medicaid waiver or other state and local medical and social programs could adversely affect our net service revenues and profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived approximately 95% of our net service revenues from continuing operations from agreements that are directly or indirectly paid for by state and local governmental agencies, such as Medicaid funded programs and Medicaid waiver programs. Governmental agencies generally condition their agreements with us upon a sufficient budgetary appropriation. If a governmental agency does not receive an appropriation sufficient to cover its contractual obligations with us, it may terminate an agreement or defer or reduce the amount of the reimbursement we receive. Almost all the states in which we operate are facing budgetary shortfalls due to the current economic downturn and the rising costs of health care, and as a result, have made, are considering or may consider making changes in their Medicaid, Medicaid waiver or other state and local medical and social programs. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 permits states to make benefit cuts to their Medicaid programs, which could affect the services for which states contract with us. Changes that states have made or may consider making to address their budget deficits include: • limiting increases in, or decreasing, reimbursement rates; • redefining eligibility standards or coverage criteria for social and medical programs or the receipt of home and community based services under those programs; • increasing the consumer’s share of costs or co-payment requirements; • decreasing the number of authorized hours for recipients; • slowing payments to providers; • increasing utilization of self-directed care alternatives or “all inclusive” programs; or • shifting beneficiaries to managed care programs. Certain of these measures have been implemented by, or are proposed in, states in which we operate. For example, California has considered a number of proposals, including potential changes in eligibility standards or hours utilization and Illinois has delayed payments to providers. In 2012, we derived approximately 64% of our total net service revenues from continuing operations from services provided in Illinois, 7% of our total net service revenues from continuing operations from services provided in California and, 7% of our total net service revenues from continuing operations from services provided in Washington. Because a substantial portion of our business is concentrated in these states, any significant reduction in expenditures that pay for our services in these states and other states in which we do business may have a disproportionately negative impact on our future operating results. Provisions in the Health Reform Act increase eligibility for Medicaid, which may cause a reallocation of Medicaid funding. It is difficult to predict at this time what the effect of these changes would be on our business. If changes in Medicaid policy result in a reduction in available funds for the services we offer, our net service revenues could be negatively impacted. Further, in an effort to control escalating Medicaid costs, states are increasingly requiring Medicaid beneficiaries to enroll in managed care plans. Under a health reform bill signed into law in January 2012, Illinois set a goal to increase the percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries in Medicaid managed care plans from the current 8% to 50% by 2015. The difficulty of getting healthcare providers to agree to sign up for the plans, however, has proved to be a stumbling block to managed care enrollment. States are also increasingly requiring Medicaid beneficiaries to work with case managers. The Governor of Illinois has reported that state revenue is not sufficient to keep up with pension and Medicaid obligations. On February 22, 2012, the Governor of Illinois released his proposed budget for fiscal year 2013. He called for a $2.7 billion cut to the state’s $14 billion Medicaid program. Options to reach that goal include rate reduction and reform, eliminating some services, implementing utilization controls, and restricting Medicaid eligibility so that fewer people can qualify. On March 7, 2013 the Illinois Department on Aging released a letter to all providers notifying them that it was projecting it would run out of appropriations for home 17 Table of Contents and community based services by March 15, 2013. We were notified shortly thereafter that substantially all billings for our services beginning on March 1, 2013 would be held for approval pending additional appropriations. While there are bills drafted to provide supplemental appropriation to the Illinois Department on Aging, those bills have not been introduced. The Governor’s budget for fiscal year 2014 was introduced on March 6, 2013 and included funding for the Illinois Department on Aging. It is not clear whether fiscal year 2013 bills will be payable with fiscal year 2014 appropriations. Absent passage of the supplemental appropriation or approval of the fiscal year 2014 budget by the General Assembly, we are at risk of not being reimbursed for services provided from March 1, 2013 through June 30, 2013. Because a substantial portion of our business is concentrated in these programs, any significant reduction in expenditures that pay for our services would have a disproportionately negative impact on our future operating results. In February 2012, CMS agreed to allow Illinois to move forward on at least one of two efforts to combat Medicaid fraud. In January 2013, Illinois began a program to verify annually the income and residency of Medicaid beneficiaries. If Illinois identifies non-resident Medicaid beneficiaries and removes them from the Medicaid rolls or prevents non-resident individuals from becoming Medicaid beneficiaries, or if Illinois identifies Medicaid applicants or Medicaid beneficiaries who do not meet income requirements and prevents them from becoming Medicaid beneficiaries or removes beneficiaries from the Medicaid rolls, the number of consumers we serve in Illinois could be reduced, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. The federal government implemented in March 2013 certain budgetary reductions commonly known as sequestration. Reimbursement or authorizations for services under our programs with federal and state contracts may be reduced as a result of these actions, which could negatively impact our business and the results of operations. State efforts to transition their home and community based programs to being administered by managed care plans could adversely affect our net service revenues and our profitability. The Health Reform Act encourages states to integrate the state managed Medicaid home and community based programs with managed Medicare programs. The objective of these initiatives is to enhance the coordination of benefits between the two programs and to lower overall costs. The integrated programs are being structured as three year pilots. States are also transitioning their Medicaid home and community based programs to managed care without including the integration of the Medicare programs. Nationally, 27 states have initiated efforts to pursue these programs, with 17 of the 19 states in which we provide services having initiated their efforts to transition to managed care. The timing for approval and implementation of these demonstration projects is unknown at this time. Delaware, New Jersey and New Mexico have already transitioned their home and community based services programs to managed care plans, but have not yet integrated the programs with Medicare benefit plans. Illinois, California, and Washington are in the process of implementing plans for the dual eligible population with effective dates in late 2013 and early 2014. Idaho, Oregon, Nevada, Indiana, Missouri, Pennsylvania, Alabama, North Carolina and South Carolina are pursuing some form of managed home and community based services programs and / or Medicare dual eligible programs. We cannot assure you that; we will be able to secure favorable contracts with all or some of the managed care organizations; our reimbursement under these programs will remain at current levels; the authorizations for services will remain at current levels or that our profitability will remain at levels consistent with past performance. If states in which we provide services transition their home and community based programs to managed care plans and we are not able to participate through contracts with managed care organization or otherwise, we could lose revenue generated in those states, even in states in which we currently have contracts to provide home and community based services. The implementation of Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) may limit our ability to increase our market share and could adversely affect our revenues. CMS published final ACO regulations in October 2011, which established a shared savings program to facilitate coordination and cooperation among providers to improve the quality of care for Medicare fee-for- 18 Table of Contents service beneficiaries and reduce unnecessary costs. CMS is encouraging healthcare providers to work together to better coordinate care for consumers. These programs are focused on efforts by hospitals and physician groups to organize the medical providers and are not directed toward home and community based service providers. If we are not included in development of these programs, or if the ACOs establish similar services to include home and community based service programs for their participants, we are at risk for losing market share. Other cost savings initiatives may be presented by the government and commercial payors to control costs and reduce hospital admissions / readmissions in which we could be financially at risk. We cannot predict at this time what effect ACOs or similar organizations may have on our company. Changes to eligibility requirements or methods of reimbursement for home and community based services in the Illinois Department on Aging program could adversely affect our net service revenues and profitability. We derive approximately 57% of our revenue from continuing operations from the Illinois Department on Aging programs. Since 2011 the State of Illinois has proposed various initiatives to reduce the costs of the Illinois Department on Aging program. The Governor of Illinois and department directors introduced in their fiscal year 2014 budget several initiatives to increase federal financial participation enhancement for the Medicaid programs under which we are a provider. In addition to these revenue enhancement proposals, cost savings measures were proposed to be achieved through the mandated utilization of an electronic visit verification system by all providers, changes to rules related to payments, and the establishment of parameters utilized in the authorization of hours based on specific care plan tasks. It is difficult to ascertain what impact, if any, these proposed rule changes will have on our business or if the proposed budget will be approved by the General Assembly. If these changes are implemented and have an impact on the number of hours authorized or services provided to existing consumers, our service revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. Delays in reimbursement due to state budget deficits or otherwise have decreased, and may in the future further decrease our liquidity. There is generally a delay between the time that we provide services and the time that we receive reimbursement or payment for these services. The majority of the 19 states in which we operate are operating with budget deficits for their current fiscal year. These and other states may in the future delay reimbursement, which would adversely affect our liquidity. Specifically, the State of Illinois is currently reimbursing us on a delayed basis, including with respect to our agreements with the Illinois Department on Aging, our largest payor. Our reimbursements from the State of Illinois could be further delayed. In addition, from time to time, procedural issues require us to resubmit claims before payment is remitted, which contributes to our aged receivables. Additionally, unanticipated delays in receiving reimbursement from state programs due to changes in their policies or billing or audit procedures may adversely impact our liquidity and working capital. Because we fund our operations primarily through the collection of accounts receivable, any delays in reimbursement would result in the need to increase borrowings under our credit facility. Our revenue may be negatively impacted by a failure to appropriately document services, resulting delays in reimbursement and related indemnification obligations. Reimbursement to us is conditioned upon providing the correct administrative and billing codes and properly documenting the services themselves, including the level of service provided, and the necessity for the services. If incorrect or incomplete documentation is provided or inaccurate reimbursement codes are utilized, this could result in nonpayment for services rendered and could lead to allegations of billing fraud. This could subsequently lead to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not covered, services provided were not medically necessary, or supporting documentation was not adequate. Pursuant to the Home Health Purchase Agreement, we are obligated to indemnify the Purchasers for, among other things, (i) penalties, fines, judgments and settlement amounts arising from a violation of certain specified statutes, including the False Claims Act, the 19 Table of Contents Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Ethics in Patient Referral Act or any state law equivalent in connection with the operation of the Home Health Business prior to the Closing, and (ii) any liability related to the failure of any reimbursement claim submitted to certain government programs for services rendered by the Home Health Business prior to the Closing to meet the requirements of such government programs, or any violation prior to the Closing of any health care laws. Such liabilities include amounts to be recouped by, or repaid to, such government programs as a result of improperly submitted claims for reimbursement or those discovered as a result of audits by investigative agencies. All services that we have provided that have been or may be reimbursed by Medicare are subject to retroactive adjustments and/or total denial of payments received from Medicare under various review and audit provisions included in the program regulations. The review period is generally described as six years from the date the services are provided but could be expanded to ten years under certain circumstances if fraud is found to have existed at the time of original billing. In the event that there are adjustments relating to the period prior to the Closing, we may be required to reimburse the Purchasers or the government for the amount of such adjustments, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, timing delays may cause working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in achieving our financial results and maintaining liquidity. It is possible that documentation support, system problems, provider issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, which may materially adversely affect our working capital, and our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate this risk. The implementation or expansion of self-directed care programs in states in which we operate may limit our ability to increase our market share and could adversely affect our revenue. Self-directed care programs are funded by Medicaid and state and local agencies and allow the consumer to exercise discretion in selecting home and community based service providers. Consumers may hire family members, friends or neighbors to provide services that might otherwise be provided by a home and community based service agency provider, such as our company. Most states and the District of Columbia have implemented self-directed care programs, to varying degrees and for different types of consumers. States are under pressure from the federal government and certain advocacy groups to expand these programs. CMS has provided states with specific Medicaid waiver options for programs that offer person-centered planning, individual budgeting or self-directed services and support as part of the CMS Independence Plus initiative introduced in 2002 under an Executive Order of the President. Certain private foundations have also granted resources to states to develop and study programs that provide financial accounts to consumers for their long-term care needs, and counseling services to help prepare a plan of care that will help meet those needs. Expansion of these self-directed programs may erode our Medicaid consumer base and could adversely affect our net service revenues. Failure to renew a significant agreement or group of related agreements may materially impact our revenue. In 2012, we derived approximately 57.3% of our net service revenues from continuing operations under agreements with the Illinois Department on Aging, 3.9% of our net service revenues from continuing operations under an agreement with Nevada Medicaid and 3.9% of our net service revenues from continuing operations under an agreement with the Riverside County (California) Department of Public Social Services. Each of our agreements are generally in effect for a specific term. For example, the services we provide to the Illinois Department on Aging are provided under a number of agreements that expire at various times through 2015, while our agreement with the Riverside County Department of Public Social Services is reevaluated and subject to renewal annually. In addition, our relationship with Riverside County may change before the end of the term of our agreement, including any renewal terms, as the State of California and Riverside County are planning to enter into managed care demonstration plans whereby the services we provide to consumers in the county would become the responsibility of the contracted managed care plans. Even though our agreements are stated to be for a specific term, they are generally terminable by the counterparty upon 60 days’ notice. Our ability to renew or retain our agreements depends on our quality of service and reputation, as well as other factors over which we 20 Table of Contents have little or no control, such as state appropriations and changes in provider eligibility requirements. Additionally, failure to satisfy any of the numerous technical renewal requirements in connection with our proposals for agreements could result in a proposal being rejected even if it contains favorable pricing terms. Failure to obtain, renew or retain agreements with major payors may negatively impact our results of operations and revenue. We can give no assurance these agreements will be renewed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our industry is highly competitive, fragmented and market-specific, with limited barriers to entry. We compete with home and community based service providers, home health providers, private caregivers, larger publicly held companies, privately held companies, privately held single-site agencies, hospital-based agencies, not-for-profit organizations, community-based organizations and self-directed care programs. In addition, certain governmental payors contract for services with independent providers such that our relationships with these payors are not exclusive, particularly in California. Our competition consists of home and community based service providers, home health providers, private caregivers, larger publicly traded companies, privately held companies, privately held single-site agencies, hospital-based agencies, non-for-profit organizations, community-based organizations, managed care organizations and self-directed care programs. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, political and marketing resources, name recognition or a larger number of consumers and payors than we do. In addition, some of these organizations offer more services than we do in the markets in which we operate. Consumers or referral sources may perceive that local service providers and not-for-profit agencies deliver higher quality services or are more responsive. These competitive advantages may limit our ability to attract and retain referrals in local markets and to increase our overall market share. There are limited barriers to entry in providing home-based social and medical services, and the trend has been for states to eliminate many of the barriers that historically existed. For example, Illinois changed the way in which it procures home and community based service providers in 2009, allowing all providers that are willing and capable to obtain state approval and provide services. This may increase competition in that state, and because we derived approximately 64% of our net service revenues from continuing operations from services provided in Illinois in 2012, this increased competition could negatively impact our business. Local competitors may develop strategic relationships with referral sources and payors. This could result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of consumers or payors, any of which could harm our business. In addition, existing competitors may offer new or enhanced services that we do not provide, or be viewed by consumers as a more desirable local alternative. The introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, in combination with the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue, a loss of market acceptance of our services and a negative impact on our results of operations. Our profitability could be negatively affected by a reduction in reimbursement from payors. States such as Illinois and California are experiencing large budget deficits, which may result in lower Medicaid payments. In addition, private payors, including commercial insurance companies, could also reduce reimbursement. Any reduction in Medicaid reimbursements or imposition of copayments that dissuade the use of our services, or any reduction in reimbursement from private payors, would materially adversely affect our profitability. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulation. Changes to the laws and regulations governing our business could negatively impact our profitability and any failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business. The federal government and the states in which we operate regulate our industry extensively. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, impose certain requirements on the way in which we do business, the services we offer, and our interactions with consumers and the public. These requirements include matters related to: • licensure and certification; • adequacy and quality of services; • qualifications and training of personnel; • confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • addition of facilities and services; and • billing for services. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. These changes could reduce our profitability by increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing or decreasing mandated services, forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Failure to comply could lead to the termination of rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs, the suspension or revocation of licenses and other civil and criminal penalties and a delay in our ability to bill and collect for services provided. The Health Reform Act amended the False Claims Act to provide that a provider must report and return overpayments within 60 days of identifying the overpayment or the claims for the services that generated the overpayments become false claims subject to the False Claims Act. Overpayments include payments for services for which the provider does not have proper documentation. If we were to identify documentation failures that could not be corrected we could be required to return payments received for those claims within the mandated 60-day time period. If we fail to identify and return overpayments within the required 60-day period we could be subject to suits under the False Claims Act by the government or relators (whistleblowers). Any of these could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. The Health Reform Act is broad, sweeping reform, and is subject to change, including through the adoption of related regulations, the way in which its provisions are interpreted and the manner in which it is enforced. It is difficult to predict the impact of the Health Reform Act due to its complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual or potentially delayed implementation, court challenges and possible amendment or repeal, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices afforded them by the law. We cannot assure you, however, that the provisions described above, or that any other provisions of the Health Reform Act, will not adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial results. We may be unable to mitigate any adverse effects resulting from the Health Reform Act. While we believe that we protect individuals’ health information, if our information systems are breached, we may experience reputational harm that could adversely affect our business. Recently, the OCR, which is charged with enforcement of HIPAA, has imposed substantial fines and compliance requirements on covered entities whose employees improperly disclosed individuals’ health information. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our employment practices. Failure to comply with these laws, or changes to these laws that increase our employment-related expenses, could adversely impact our operations. We are required to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment, including occupational safety and health requirements, wage and hour requirements, employment insurance and equal employment opportunity laws. These laws can vary significantly among states and can be highly technical. Costs and expenses related to these requirements are a significant operating expense and may increase as a result of, among other things, changes in federal or state laws or regulations requiring employers to provide specified benefits to employees, increases in the minimum wage and local living wage ordinances, increases in the level of existing benefits or the lengthening of periods for which unemployment benefits are available. We may not be able to offset any increased costs and expenses. Furthermore, any failure to comply with these laws, including even a seemingly minor infraction, can result in significant penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain individuals and entities, known as excluded persons, are prohibited from receiving payment for their services rendered to Medicaid, Medicare and other federal and state healthcare program beneficiaries. If we inadvertently hire or contract with an excluded person, or if any of our current employees or contractors becomes an excluded person in the future without our knowledge, we may be subject to substantial civil penalties, including up to $10,000 for each item or service furnished by the excluded individual to a federal or state healthcare program beneficiary, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed and exclusion from the program. Under the Health Reform Act, beginning in 2014, if we continue to provide a medical plan, we will be required to provide a minimum level of coverage for all full-time employees. Should any full-time employee receive subsidized coverage through an exchange, we could be liable for an annual penalty equal to the lesser of $3,000 for each full-time employee receiving subsidized coverage or $2,000 for each of our full-time employees. The impact of these penalties may have a significant impact on our profitability. Many of our employees are not provided any medical coverage. If we determine that we will provide medical coverage for these employees, the costs could be material and have a significant effect on our profitability. We are subject to reviews, compliance audits and investigations that could result in adverse findings that negatively affect our net service revenues and profitability. As a result of our participation in Medicaid, Medicaid waiver, Medicare programs, Veterans Health Administration programs and other state and local governmental programs, and pursuant to certain of our contractual relationships, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations by governmental authorities and other third parties to verify our compliance with these programs and agreements as well as applicable laws, regulations and conditions of participation. Pursuant to the Home Health Purchase Agreement, we are obligated to indemnify the Purchasers for, among other things, (i) penalties, fines, judgments and settlement amounts arising from a violation of certain specified statutes, including the False Claims Act, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Ethics in Patient Referral Act or any state law equivalent in connection with the operation of the Home Health Business prior to the Closing, and (ii) any liability related to the failure of any reimbursement claim submitted to certain government programs for services rendered by the Home Health Business prior to the Closing to meet the requirements of such government programs, or any violation prior to the Closing of any health care laws. Such liabilities include amounts to be recouped by, or repaid to, such government programs as a result of improperly submitted claims for reimbursement or those discovered as a result of audits by investigative agencies. All services that we have provided that have been or may be reimbursed by Medicare are subject to retroactive adjustments and/or total denial of payments received from Medicare under various review and audit provisions included in the program regulations. The review period is generally described as six years from the date the services are provided but could be expanded to ten years under certain circumstances if fraud is found to have existed at the time of original billing. In the event that there 23 Table of Contents are adjustments relating to the period prior to the Closing, we may be required to reimburse the Purchasers for the amount of such adjustments, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Payments we receive in respect of Medicaid and Medicare can be retroactively adjusted after a new examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of pre- or post-payment audits. Federal, state and local government payors may disallow our requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable because proper documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed necessary. In addition, other third-party payors may reserve rights to conduct audits and make reimbursement adjustments in connection with or exclusive of audit activities. Significant adjustments as a result of these audits could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If we fail to meet any of the conditions of participation or coverage with respect to state licensure or our participation in Medicaid, Medicaid waiver, Medicare programs, Veterans Health Administration programs and other state and local governmental programs, we may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable surveyor or authority. Failure to institute a plan of action to correct the deficiency within the period provided by the surveyor or authority could result in civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of fines or other sanctions, damage to our reputation, cancellation of our agreements, suspension or revocation of our licenses or disqualification from federal and state reimbursement programs. These actions may adversely affect our ability to provide certain services, to receive payments from other payors and to continue to operate. Additionally, actions taken against one of our locations may subject our other locations to adverse consequences. We may also fail to discover all instances of noncompliance by our acquisition targets, which could subject us to adverse remedies once those acquisitions are complete. Any termination of one or more of our locations from any federal, state or local program for failure to satisfy such program’s conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenues and profitability. In 2006, the federal government launched a national pilot program utilizing independent contractors known as recovery audit contractors, or RACs, to identify and recoup Medicare overpayments. RACs are paid a contingent fee based on amounts recouped. An initial demonstration project implemented in several states resulted in the return of over $900 million in overpayments to Medicare between 2005 and 2008 from various provider types. California was the only state in which we operate that participated in the initial pilot program. The RAC program is now permanently implemented in all 50 states. This expansion may lead to an increase in the number of overpayment reviews, more aggressive audits and more claims for recoupment. If future Medicare RAC reviews result in significant refund payments, it would have an adverse effect on our financial results. Under the RAC program, third party firms engaged by CMS conduct extensive reviews of claims data and non-medical and other records to identify potential improper payments under Medicare. In recent years, federal and state civil and criminal enforcement agencies have heightened and coordinated their oversight efforts related to the healthcare industry, including with respect to referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, joint ventures and other financial relationships among health care providers. Medicare added the ZPIC program for audits. Although we have invested substantial time and effort in implementing policies and procedures to comply with laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities arising from violations. A violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs or the suspension or revocation of our licenses to operate or could trigger substantial liability under our indemnification obligations described above. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed upon us, we may suffer a substantial reduction in revenues. Negative publicity or changes in public perception of our services may adversely affect our ability to receive referrals, obtain new agreements and renew existing agreements. Our success in receiving referrals, obtaining new agreements and renewing our existing agreements depends upon maintaining our reputation as a quality service provider among governmental authorities, physicians, 24 Table of Contents hospitals, discharge planning departments, case managers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, advocacy groups, consumers and their families, other referral sources and the public. While we believe that the services that we provide are of high quality, if studies mandated by Congress in the Health Reform Act to make public quality measures are implemented and if our quality measures are deemed to be not of the highest value, our reputation could be negatively affected. Negative publicity, changes in public perceptions of our services or government investigations of our operations could damage our reputation and hinder our ability to receive referrals, retain agreements or obtain new agreements. Increased government scrutiny may also contribute to an increase in compliance costs and could discourage consumers from using our services. Any of these events could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, in connection with the sale of our Home Health Business, we granted a license to the Purchasers that allows them to use certain of our intellectual property, including the Addus name, for the provision of skilled nursing and related physical therapy healthcare services to individuals in their homes and hospice services in California, Illinois, Arkansas, South Carolina and Nevada. Although the use of the intellectual property is required to be consistent and at least equal to the level of quality and brand perception prior to the sale, we do not have operational control over the Purchasers. As a result, home health agencies operated by the Purchasers may not be operated in a manner consistent with the standards we uphold at our agencies. If such agencies do not maintain operational standards consistent with the standards we demand of our agencies, the image and brand reputation of Addus may suffer and our business may be materially affected. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations and we may not be successful in managing this growth. Our business plan calls for significant growth in business over the next several years through the expansion of our services in existing markets and the establishment of a presence in new markets. This growth will place significant demands on our management team, systems, internal controls and financial and professional resources. In addition, we will need to further develop our financial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to effectively manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Future acquisitions or start-ups may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Our growth strategy includes geographical expansion into new markets and the addition of new services in existing markets through the acquisition of local service providers. These acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties assimilating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees or consumers of acquired providers, and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired providers. In the past, we have made acquisitions that have not performed as expected or that we have been unable to successfully integrate with our existing operations. In addition, our due diligence review of acquired businesses may not successfully identify all potential issues. For example, we were unable to fully integrate one acquired business because we were unable to procure a necessary government endorsement. The failure to effectively integrate future acquisitions could have an adverse impact on our operations. We have grown our business through start-up, or de novo, locations, and we may in the future start up new locations in existing and new markets. Start-ups involve significant risks, including those relating to licensure, accreditation, hiring new personnel, establishing relationships with referral sources and delayed or difficulty in installing our operating and information systems. We may not be successful in establishing start-up locations in a timely manner due to generating insufficient business activity and incurring higher than projected operating cost that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents We may be unable to pursue acquisitions or expand into new geographic regions without obtaining additional capital or consent from our lenders. At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we had cash balances of $1.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had $16.3 million outstanding on our credit facility. After giving effect to the amount drawn on our credit facility, approximately $7.4 million of outstanding letters of credit and borrowing limits based on an advanced multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $27.1 million available for borrowing under the credit facility as of December 31, 2012. Since our credit facility provides for borrowings based on a multiple of an EBITDA ratio, any declines experienced in our EBITDA would result in a decrease in our available borrowings under our credit facility. We cannot predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts, our efforts to expand into new geographic regions or the associated capital commitments. If we do not have sufficient cash resources or availability under our credit facility, our growth could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing. In the future, we may elect to issue additional equity securities in conjunction with raising capital, completing an acquisition or expanding into a new geographic region. Such issuances would be dilutive to existing shareholders. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from consummating more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, and, in any event, does not permit the purchase price for any one acquisition to exceed $500,000, in each case without the consent of the lenders. The consideration we paid in connection with nine of the 12 acquisitions we completed exceeded $500,000. In addition, our credit facility requires, among other things, that we are in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants set forth therein and that no event of default exists before and after giving effect to any proposed acquisition. Our ability to expand in a manner consistent with historic practices may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consent from our lenders. Access to additional capital and credit markets, at a reasonable cost, may be necessary for us to fund our operations, including potential acquisitions and working capital requirements. We currently rely on one financial institution for funding under our credit facility and any instability in the financial markets or the negative impact of local, national and worldwide economic conditions on that financial institution could impact our short and long-term liquidity needs to meet our business requirements. Divestitures could negatively affect our continuing business. We sold the Home Health Business to the Purchasers, effective March 1, 2013. We expect that the sale of the Home Health Business will enable us to realize certain long-term cost savings from reduced administrative overhead and headcount, however, there can be no assurances that these cost savings will be achieved in full or at all. Our assumptions underlying estimates of anticipated cost savings may be inaccurate and projected cost savings may therefore fall short of targets. In addition, future business conditions and events may impede our ability to continue to realize any benefits of our divestiture. Divestitures involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from running our core businesses, increased expense and potential disputes with the acquirers of the divested business. We may not successfully manage these or other risks we may confront in divesting a business, which could have an adverse effect on our continuing business. As a result of the indemnification provisions of the Home Health Purchase Agreement pursuant to which we sold Home Health Business, we may incur expenses and liabilities related to periods up to the date of sale or pursuant to our other indemnification obligations thereunder. As a result of the indemnification provisions of the Home Health Purchase Agreement pursuant to which we sold the Home Health Business, we have agreed to indemnify the Purchasers for, among other things, (i) penalties, fines, judgments and settlement amounts arising from a violation of certain specified statutes, including the False Claims Act, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Ethics 26 Table of Contents in Patient Referral Act or any state law equivalent in connection with the operation of the Home Health Business prior to the Closing, and (ii) any liability related to the failure of any reimbursement claim submitted to certain government programs for services rendered by the Home Health Business prior to the Closing to meet the requirements of such government programs, or any violation prior to the Closing of any health care laws. Such liabilities include amounts to be recouped by, or repaid to, such government programs as a result of improperly submitted claims for reimbursement or those discovered as a result of audits by investigative agencies. All services that we have provided that have been or may be reimbursed by Medicare are subject to retroactive adjustments and/or total denial of payments received from Medicare under various review and audit provisions included in the program regulations. The review period is generally described as six years from the date the services are provided but could be expanded to ten years under certain circumstances if fraud is found to have existed at the time of original billing. In the event that there are adjustments relating to the period prior to the Closing, we may be required to reimburse the Purchasers for the amount of such adjustments, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, pursuant to the Home Health Purchase Agreement, we are obligated to indemnify the Purchasers for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants, certain taxes and liabilities related to the pre-Closing period (other than specifically identified assumed liabilities). Any liability we have to the Purchasers under the Home Health Purchase Agreement could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business may be harmed by labor relations matters. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because our hourly workforce is highly unionized. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 73% of our hourly workforce was represented by two national unions, including the Service Employees International Union, which is our largest union. Our local labor agreements will be negotiated as they expire, which will occur at various times through 2013. Upon expiration of these collective bargaining agreements, we may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with these labor unions. A strike, work stoppage or other slowdown could result in a disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business. Labor costs are the most significant component of our total expenditures and, therefore, an increase in the cost of labor could significantly harm our business. We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other health care providers, including potential or current referral sources. We are required to comply with federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or other financial arrangements that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular medical services provider. In addition, certain financial relationships, including ownership interests and compensation arrangements, between physicians and providers of designated health services, such as our company, to whom those physicians refer patients, are prohibited by the Stark Law and similar state laws. Under both the Stark Law, there are a number of exceptions that permit certain carefully constrained relationships. Courts or regulatory agencies may interpret the federal Anti-Kickback Law, the Stark Law and similar state laws regulating relationships between health care providers and physicians in ways that will implicate our business. Provisions in the Health Reform Act make it easier to prosecute an Anti-Kickback Law violation as it is no longer necessary for the government to prove that a person had the specific intent to violate the statute. The Health Reform Act permits the government or a whistleblower to file an action under the False Claims Act if there an arrangement that violates the Anti-Kickback Law. In addition, the DHHS may withhold payments if it believes in its discretion that there is credible evidence of fraud. Violations of these laws could lead to fines and exclusions or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission privacy, and security of health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, such as payors, business associates and consumers. These include standards for common 27 Table of Contents health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information, the use of electronic signatures, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals and security, privacy and enforcement. The HITECH Act amended HIPAA to impose new requirements for protecting the privacy and security of individuals’ health information, requirements to notify individuals and in some circumstances the media if there is a breach of individuals’ health information, and imposed a four-tier system of enhanced financial penalties. While we believe that we protect individuals’ health information, if our information systems are breached, we may experience reputational harm that could adversely affect our business. Recently, the OCR, which is charged with enforcement of HIPAA, has imposed substantial fines and compliance requirements on covered entities whose employees improperly disclosed individuals’ health information. On January 25, 2013, OCR issued long-awaited regulations implementing the HITECH Act requirements. The regulations became effective March 26, 2013, with a deferred compliance date for most provisions of September 23, 2013. Violations of the HIPAA privacy and security standards may result in civil or criminal penalties depending upon the nature of the violation. The HITECH Act provides for increased civil penalties for violations under HIPAA. Civil penalties are tiered according to conduct, from $100-$50,000 per violation with a maximum penalty of $1.5 million per year for the identical violation. Criminal penalties can apply to employees of covered entities or other individuals who knowingly access, use or disclose protected health information for improper purposes with tiered fines of up to $250,000 and imprisonment for up to ten years. The OCR has stepped up enforcement of HIPAA violations and auditing of covered entities and has imposed significant financial and other penalties on entities that have violated the law. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and criminal and civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations subject us to risk of litigation. Operating in the home and community based services industry exposes us to an inherent risk of wrongful death, personal injury, professional malpractice and other potential claims or litigation brought by our consumers and employees. Because we operate in this industry, from time to time, we are subject to claims alleging that we did not properly treat or care for a consumer that we failed to follow internal or external procedures that resulted in death or harm to a consumer or that our employees mistreated our consumers, resulting in death or harm. We are also subject to claims arising out of accidents involving vehicle collisions brought by consumers whom we are transporting or from employees driving to or from home visits. We operate five adult day centers which provide transportation for our elderly and disabled consumers. Each of our vehicles transports seven to 14 passengers to and from our locations. The concentration of consumers in one vehicle increases the risk of larger claims being brought against us in the event of an accident. In addition, regulatory agencies may initiate administrative proceedings alleging violations of statutes and regulations arising from our services and seek to impose monetary penalties on us. We could be required to pay substantial amounts to respond to regulatory investigations or, if we do not prevail, damages or penalties arising from these legal proceedings. We also are subject to potential lawsuits under the False Claims Act or other federal and state whistleblower statutes designed to combat fraud and abuse in our industry. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary awards or penalties which may not be covered by our insurance. If our third-party insurance coverage and self-insurance coverage reserves are not adequate to cover these claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in our defense, civil lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could distract us from running our business or irreparably damage our reputation. Our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs. Although we maintain insurance consistent with industry practice, the insurance we maintain may not be sufficient to satisfy all claims made against us. For example, we have a $350,000 deductible per person/per 28 Table of Contents occurrence under our workers’ compensation insurance program. We cannot assure you that claims will not be made in the future in excess of the limits of our insurance, and any such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, may have a material adverse effect on our business or assets. We utilize historical data to estimate our reserves for our insurance programs. If losses on asserted claims exceed the current insurance coverage and accrued reserves, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Changes in our annual insurance costs and self-insured retention limits depend in large part on the insurance market, and insurance coverage may not continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. Inclement weather or natural disasters may impact our ability to provide services. Inclement weather may prevent our employees from providing authorized services. We are not paid for authorized services that are not delivered due to these weather events. Furthermore, prolonged inclement weather or the occurrence of natural disasters in the markets in which we operate could disrupt our relationships with consumers, employees and referral sources located in affected areas and, in the case of our corporate office, our ability to provide administrative support services, including billing and collection services. For example, our corporate headquarters and a number of our agencies are located in the Midwestern United States and California, increasing our exposure to blizzards and other major snowstorms, ice storms, tornados, flooding and earthquakes. Future inclement weather or natural disasters may adversely affect our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends on our information systems. Our operations may be disrupted if we are unable to effectively integrate, manage and maintain the security of our information systems. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, gathering information to improve the quality of consumer care, optimizing financial performance, adjusting consumer mix, monitoring regulatory compliance and enhancing staff efficiency. We rely on an external service provider, McKesson, to provide continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement of our primary information systems used for our operational needs. The software we license from McKesson supports intake, personnel scheduling, office clinical and centralized billing and receivables management in an integrated database, enabling us to standardize the care delivered across our network of locations and monitor our performance and consumer outcomes. To the extent that McKesson becomes insolvent or fails to support the software or systems, or if we lose our license with McKesson, our operations could be negatively affected. We also depend upon a proprietary payroll management system that includes a feature for general ledger population, tax reporting, managing wage assignments and garnishments, on-site check printing, direct-deposit paychecks and customizable heuristic analytical controls. If we experience a reduction or interruption in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems, or fail to restore our information systems after such a reduction or interruption, our operations and ability to produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. The operation of this system is dependent on the knowledge and talents of a limited number of company employees. Should these individuals terminate their employment, our ability to adequately support or maintain the system could be materially affected. Because of the confidential health information and consumer records we store and transmit, loss of electronically-stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation and liability. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to process transactions and produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. 29 Table of Contents We do not have full redundancy of all of our information systems. Should our support center become inoperable as a result of a natural disaster or terrorist acts, it would take substantial amount of time and resources to restore our business to the current state of operation. This risk is becoming even more critical as we are centralizing more of our business operations. The disruption to the business would be material and would affect our operational and financial performance. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and consumer data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of consumers if security breaches are not prevented. The agreements that govern our credit facility contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business and we have agreed to negotiate new terms. Our credit facility agreement requires us to comply with customary financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain a maximum fixed charge ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, and limit our capital expenditures. Our credit facility also includes non-financial covenants including restrictions on our ability to: • transfer assets, enter into mergers, make acquisitions or experience fundamental changes; • make investments, loans and advances; • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee obligations; • create liens on assets; • enter into affiliate transactions; • enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business; • incur capital lease obligations; and • make capital expenditures. We have agreed, as a condition to receiving our lender’s consent to the sale of the Home Health Business, to renegotiate the terms of our current credit facility including a potential reduction in the amount of the maximum revolving loan limit and commitment. This could result in a reduction of our available credit or increases to our costs. These changes along with the restrictions in our current credit facility could impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us, and they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. Eos Capital Partners III, L.P. and Eos Partners SBIC III, L.P., or the Eos Funds, together beneficially own approximately 37.2% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, the Eos Funds have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including: • changes to the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers; 30 Table of Contents • proposed mergers, consolidations or other business combinations; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our shares of common stock. In addition, two of our directors are affiliated with the Eos Funds. This concentration of ownership of shares of our common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of shares of our common stock that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. The interests of the Eos Funds may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our stock price. We may not be able to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. We must attract and retain qualified personnel in the markets in which we operate in order to provide our services. We compete for personnel with other providers of social and medical services as well as companies in other service-based industries. Competition may be greater for skilled personnel, such as regional and agency directors. Our ability to attract and retain personnel depends on several factors, including our ability to provide employees with attractive assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. The loss of one or more of the members of the executive management team or the inability of a new management team to successfully execute our strategies may adversely affect our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to provide our services, the quality of our services may decline, and we could lose consumers and referral sources. We may be more vulnerable to the effects of a public health catastrophe than other businesses due to the nature of our consumers. The majority of our consumers are older individuals with complex medical challenges, many of whom may be more vulnerable than the general public during a pandemic or in a public health catastrophe. Our employees are also at greater risk of contracting contagious diseases due to their increased exposure to vulnerable consumers. For example, if a flu pandemic were to occur, we could suffer significant losses to our consumer population or a reduction in the availability of our employees and, at a high cost, be required to hire replacements for affected workers. Accordingly, certain public health catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued employment of certain members of our senior management team. We also depend upon the continued employment of the individuals that manage several of our key functional areas, including operations, business development, accounting, finance, human resources, marketing, information systems, contracting and compliance. The departure of any member of our senior management team may materially adversely affect our operations. If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill and/or our intangible assets, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected. Goodwill and intangible assets with finite lives represent a significant portion of our assets. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it might indicate a decline in our fair value and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been 31 Table of Contents impaired. If as part of our annual review of goodwill and intangibles, we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill and/or intangible assets, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected, which could affect our flexibility to obtain additional financing. In addition, if our assumptions used in preparing our valuations of our reporting units for purposes of impairment testing differ materially from actual future results, we may record impairment charges in the future and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. We had $50.5 million of goodwill and $6.4 million of intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2012. It is not possible at this time to determine if there will be any future impairment charge, or if there is, whether such charges would be material. We will continue to review our goodwill and other intangible assets for possible impairment. We cannot be certain that a downturn in our business or changes in market conditions will not result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets and the recognition of resulting expenses in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of all securities, including securities of health care companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance; • variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • we have a small base of registered shares of common stock consisting of the 5.4 million shares we issued in our initial public offering (“IPO”), which represents approximately 49.8% of our total common shares outstanding, that could result in significant stock price movements upward or downward based on low levels of trading volume in our common stock; • future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; • investor perception of our business and our prospects; • developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; • changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or • general economic and stock market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of homecare companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. We have been and may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend solely on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our shares of common stock and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business and for general corporate purposes. In addition, we do not 32 Table of Contents anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. If securities or industry analysts fail to publish research or reports about our business or publish negative research or reports, or our results are below analysts’ estimates, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may depend in part on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If analysts fail to publish reports on us regularly or at all, we could fail to gain visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. If one or more analysts do cover us and downgrade their evaluations of our stock or our results are below analysts’ estimates, our stock price would likely decline. In addition, due to the small number of analysts covering us, a single comment or report from one of the analysts whether positive or negative, could result in a significant increase or decrease in our stock price. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management without the consent of the board of directors. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control include: • a staggered board of directors; • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. However, because the Eos Funds acquired their shares prior to our IPO, Section 203 is currently inapplicable to any business combination with the Eos Funds or their affiliates. In addition, our amended and restated bylaws require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our business and stock price could be adversely impacted. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires our management to report on, and may require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Compliance with SEC regulations adopted pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a smaller reporting company, we have historically been exempt from the requirement under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act that an independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. However, it is probable that we will be required to comply with the reporting requirements under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the near future 33 Table of Contents since the value of our publicly held shares, those not controlled by insiders, has increased and may cross the threshold for becoming an accelerated filer. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act our legal and financial compliance costs makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The NASDAQ is circulating a proposed rule change to require all registered companies to have an internal audit function. We do not currently have an internal audit function. If passed this rule change would require us to make additions to our staff and/or engage third party consultants to be in compliance with this requirement. Compliance with public reporting and Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements requires us to continually evaluate the adequacy of, and in some cases expand our compliance, accounting and finance staff. In connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. Moreover, if we fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions, our ability to raise capital could be impaired, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and our stock price could be adversely affected. In addition, we could have undetected internal control weaknesses and deficiencies if we continue to not be required to comply with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which would require our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Compliance with changing regulations including specific program compliance, corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses and pose challenges for our management team. The state agencies who contract for our services require our compliance with various rules and regulations affecting the services we provide. We have a compliance officer who monitors and reports on our efforts for achieving the desired results. State agencies are recommending increased rules and regulations in an effort to control the growth of these programs and their overall costs. The implementation of these changes may require the Company to increase their efforts to remain compliant, may reduce the authorizations for services to be provided, may result in certain consumers no longer being eligible for our services all of which may result in lower revenues and increased costs, reducing our operating performance and profitability. If we continue to serve our consumers without addressing these increased regulations we are at risk for non-compliance with program requirements and potential penalties. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated there-under, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the U.S. public markets. We are committed to maintaining high standards of internal controls over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Declines in earnings could create future liquidity problems. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility is based on the lesser of (i) the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined, for the most recent 12-month period multiplied by the specified 34 Table of Contents advance multiple, up to 3.25, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit or (ii) $55.0 million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. As of December 31, 2012 our total availability under our credit facility was $27.1 million. The current Federal and state economic and reimbursement environments and state budgetary pressures to decrease or eliminate services we provide could negatively affect our future earnings. This decrease in earnings would reduce the availability of funds under our credit facility which could have a negative impact on our future operating results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 